Gridley City Council – Regular City Council Meeting Agenda 

Monday, October 7, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

 

 

 

“Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community’s vitality and overall quality of life.  We 

are committed to providing high quality,  cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations.  We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives.” 

 

 
CALL TO ORDER - Mayor Johnson 
ROLL CALL - Recording Secretary 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE – Council member Borges 
INVOCATION – Bishop Joshua McLean, Church of Jesus Christ, Latter-Day Saints 
PROCLAMATIONS 

•  Appreciation and Support of the Gridley Area Chamber of Commerce and Their Tuesday 

•  Domestic Violence Awareness Month, October 2019 (accepted by Anastacia Snyder, 

Night Farmer’s Market 

Executive Director for Catalyst) 
 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM - Members of the public may address the City Council on 
matters not listed on the agenda.   The City Council may not discuss nor take action on any 
community participation item brought forward by a member of the community.  Comments are 
requested to be limited to three (3) minutes.  

 

CONSENT AGENDA – Items on the Consent Agenda are considered routine and acted upon by one 
motion. Any Council member may request that an item be removed for separate consideration. The 
City Council may only make minor comments; otherwise the item should be removed from the 
Consent Agenda and placed as the first item(s) under “Items for Council Consideration”.  
 

1. 

City Council minutes dated September 16, 2019 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-022: A Resolution of the City Council of the City 
of Gridley Approving the Memorandum of Understanding Between the International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1245 Employees and the Gridley City 
Council 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-023: A Resolution of the City Council of the City 
of Gridley Approving the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Gridley 
Police Officers Association and the Gridley City Council 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-024: A Resolution of the City Council of the City 
of Gridley Adjusting Compensation for Management, Mid-Management, 
Confidential and Unrepresented Employees 

2. 

3. 

4. 

 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 10-7-19  

                    Page 1 of 3 

ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

5. 

6. 

Acceptance of US Department of Homeland Security SAFER Grant Award 

Valley Oaks Estates, Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19; Applicant is proposing a 21-
parcel single-family residential subdivision on three parcels totaling ±4.7 acres, APN: 
022-230-022, -024 and -025.  Determine the project is Categorically Exempt per the 
California Environmental Quality Act, Section 15332 (a-e), Class 32, Infill Development 
Projects. 

•  Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-025:  A Resolution Approving Tentative 

Subdivision Map No. 1-19 to Subdivide Three Parcels Consisting of 
Approximately 4.7 Acres into Twenty-One (21) Parcels Consisting of One 0.25 
Acre Parcel for a Detention Basin and Twenty (20) Parcels for a Residential 
Housing Development Located at the Northeast Corner of Peach Street and 
West Biggs Gridley Road in the Single Family Residential District (R-1)  and 
Residential, Low Density (RLD) General Plan Land Use Designation  (APN: 
022-230-022, -024 & -025)  

•  Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-026:  A Resolution Authorizing the City 

Administrator to Execute a Deferred Improvement Agreement to Defer the 
Construction of a Portion of Road and Pedestrian Improvements on the East 
Side of West Biggs Gridley Road 

•  Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-027:  A Resolution Authorizing the City 
Administrator to Execute a Landscaping, Lighting, Utility and West Biggs 
Gridley Road Assessment District to Provide for the Maintenance of the 
Subdivision Improvements and Deferred Road Improvement Costs 

Adoption of the Notice of Determination of the Environmental Documents Little Ave 
Lift Station and Force Main Project 

Adoption of the Notice of Determination of the Environmental Documents Waterline 
Replacement Project 

 

7. 

8. 

CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS - Brief updates from City staff and brief reports on 
conferences, seminars, and meetings attended by the Mayor and City Council members, if any. 

 

Police Department Digital Radio System 
Potential Cessation of Net Metering Program 
Temporary Residential Housing Incentive Program #2 

POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 
 
 
 
 
 
CLOSED SESSION 
 

11/4/2019 
11/18/2019 
11/18/2019 

9. 

Conference with Legal Counsel concerning existing litigation pursuant to 
Government Code 54956.9 – Blackshire vs. City of Gridley, et al, Butte County 
Superior Court Case No. 19CV01639 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 10-7-19  

                    Page 2 of 3 

ADJOURNMENT – adjourning to the next regularly scheduled meeting on Monday, October 21, 
2019 
 
NOTE 1: POSTING OF AGENDA- This agenda was posted on the public bulletin board at City Hall at 
or before 6:00 p.m., October 4, 2019, in accordance with Government Code Section 54954.2. This 
agenda along with all attachments is available for public viewing online at www.gridley.ca.us and at 
the Administration counter in City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA. 
 
NOTE 2: REGARDING UNSCHEDULED MATTERS – In accordance with state law, it shall be the policy 
of this Council that no action shall be taken on any item presented during the public forum or on 
unscheduled matters unless the Council, by majority vote, determines that an emergency situation 
exists, or, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote finds that the need to take action arose 
subsequent to the posting of this agenda. 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 10-7-19  

                    Page 3 of 3 

Appreciation and Support of the Gridley Area Chamber of Commerce 

And Their Tuesday Night Farmer’s Market 

 

WHEREAS the City of Gridley would like to recognize the volunteers of the Gridley Area 

Chamber of Commerce for their continuous hard work, never ending volunteer hours, and tireless 
dedication; and, 
 

WHEREAS because of their steadfast efforts and keen desire to provide our community with 
outstanding events throughout the year, we have amazing activities such as the Red Suspenders Day 
Parade, the Winter Wonderland Festival and Tree Lighting and the Tuesday Night Farmer’s Market; and, 
 

WHEREAS the Gridley Chamber of Commerce Tuesday Night Farmers market has brought high 
quality entertainment, various talented artisans, unique small businesses, and great diversity of locally 
grown agricultural products to the Gridley community; and, 
 

WHEREAS farmers markets contribute to the economic and social vitality of out community, 

creating a positive social experience and educating consumers about where their food comes from; and, 
 

WHEREAS farmers markets are a key source of fresh, nutritious, affordable and locally grown 

food for consumers of all ages to enjoy; and, 
 

space adding to our quality of life; and, 
 

helping nearby businesses. 
 

WHEREAS farmers markets support farm families, rural jobs and preserve farmland and open 

WHEREAS Farmers markets also support artisans, prepared food and other vendors as well as 

NOW, THEREFORE, I Bruce Johnson, Mayor of the City of Gridley along with Gridley City Council 
would like to proclaim and extend our deep gratitude to the Gridley Area Chamber of Commerce and it’s 
volunteers for their dedication and support of the Gridley Community and would encourage all Gridley 
area residents to support the Chamber’s non-stop efforts and come out to enjoy the year-round fun! 
 
 
 
 
 

 
__________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

Domestic Violence Awareness Month 2019 Proclamation 

 

WHEREAS although progress has been made toward preventing and ending domestic 
violence and providing support to survivors and their families, important work remains to be 
done; 

WHEREAS domestic violence programs in California provide essential, lifesaving services 

for survivors, their children, and communities;  

WHEREAS there is a need to provide education, awareness and understanding of 

domestic violence and its causes;  

WHEREAS approximately 40% of California women experience physical intimate partner 

violence in their lifetimes; 

WHEREAS domestic violence affects people of all genders, sexual orientations, ages, 
racial, ethnic, cultural, social, religious, and economic groups in the United States and here in 
California;  

WHEREAS the marginalization of certain groups in society, including undocumented 

individuals, transgender individuals, and people living with disabilities, increases their 
vulnerability to domestic violence;  

WHEREAS domestic violence is the third leading cause of homelessness among families 

in the United States     

WHEREAS children exposed to domestic violence can experience long-term 

consequences including difficulty at school, substance abuse, behavioral problems in 
adolescence, and serious adult health problems 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Bruce Johnson, Mayor of Gridley, in recognition of the important 
work done by domestic violence programs, do hereby proclaim the month of October 2019 as 
Domestic Violence Awareness Month and urge all citizens to participate in the scheduled 
activities and programs sponsored by Catalyst Domestic Violence Services to work towards 
building healthy relationships and eliminating intimate partner violence. 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 

 

Gridley City Council – DRAFT City Council Meeting Minutes 

Monday, September 16, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

 

 

“Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community’s vitality and overall quality of life.  We 

are committed to providing high quality,  cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations.  We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives.” 

 

 
 

Johnson, Torres, Crye 
Borges, Williams 
None 

 
CALL TO ORDER 
Mayor Johnson called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 
ROLL CALL 
Councilmembers 
 
Present: 
Absent: 
 
Arriving after roll call:  
 
Staff present:   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Johnson 
PROCLAMATIONS – None 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 
Tony Galyean, City Attorney 
Al Byers, Police Chief 
Donna Decker, Planning Consultant 
Samantha Stopplemore, ACO/Dispatcher 
 

INTRODUCTION OF NEW OR PROMOTED EMPLOYEES - None 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM 

Mayor Johnson opened the forum and seeing no one present wishing to speak, it was closed.   

CONSENT AGENDA 
 

1. 

City Council minutes dated September 3, 2019 

Motion to approve the consent agenda by Councilmember Torres, seconded by Mayor Johnson 

ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes:  Torres, Crye, Johnson 
Motion passed, 3-0 
 
PUBLIC HEARING 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 9-16-19  

                    Page 1 of 3 

 

 

 
 

2. 

Public Hearing:  Applicant is proposing a 21-parcel single-family residential 
subdivision on three parcels totaling ±4.7 acres, APN: 022-230-022, -024 and -025 

 

a)  Receive Staff Report 
b)  Open Public Hearing 
c)  Hear Public Testimony 
d)  Close Public Hearing 
e)  Determine the project is Categorically Exempt per the California Environmental 

Quality Act, Section 15332 (a-e), Class 32, Infill Development Projects. 

Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-022:  A Resolution Approving Tentative 
Subdivision Map No. 1-19 to Subdivide Three Parcels Consisting of Approximately 
4.7 Acres into Twenty-One (21) Parcels Consisting of One 0.25 Acre Parcel for a 
Detention Basin and Twenty (20) Parcels for a Residential Housing Development 
Located at the Northeast Corner of Peach Street and West Biggs Gridley Road in the 
Single Family Residential District (R-1)  and Residential, Low Density (RLD) General 
Plan Land Use Designation  (APN: 022-230-022, -024 & -025)  
 
Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-023:  A Resolution Authorizing the City 
Administrator to Execute a Deferred Improvement Agreement to Defer the 
Construction of a Portion of Road and Pedestrian Improvements on the East Side of 
West Biggs Gridley Road 

Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-024:  A Resolution Authorizing the City 
Administrator to Execute a Landscaping, Lighting, Utility and West Biggs Gridley 
Road Assessment District to Provide for the Maintenance of the Subdivision 
Improvements and Deferred Road Improvement Costs 

 
Planning Consultant Donna Decker reviewed the proposed project and the public hearing was 
held.  Patrick Coghlan of 852 Idaho and Barbara Hageman of 808 Idaho street spoke against the 
project.  Mr. Coghlan provided written comments that will be placed with the Council hard copy 
files.  Sean O’Neil of Genesis Engineering spoke in favor of the project.  Out of respect for the 
absent Council members, the item was continued to the next meeting on October 7.  No action 
was taken. 

 

ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

3. 

Program to Manage Unclaimed Cats  

Chief Byers addressed Council and reviewed the need and benefits of the new program.   

Motion to approve the program by Mayor Johnson, seconded by Councilmember Crye 
 
ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes:  Crye, Torres, Johnson 
Motion passed, 3-0 
 
 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 9-16-19  

                    Page 2 of 3 

 
CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS 

Mayor Johnson reported on the meetings he attended with the Sutter Butte Flood Control 
Agency and the Butte County Mosquito and Vector Control District. 

 

POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 
 
 
 
 

Environmental Document Approval and Adoption – Little 
Avenue Force Main and Lift Station Improvement Project 
Environmental Document Approval and Adoption – Waterline 
Replacement Project 
Temporary Residential Housing Incentive Program #2 
Police Department Digital Radio System 

10/7/2019 
10/21/2019 
11/4/2019 

10/7/2019 

CLOSED SESSION 
 

4. 

Conference with Labor Negotiators pursuant to Government Code 54957.6 to meet 
and confer with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and Gridley Police 
Officers Association 

Council went into closed session at 6:52 and came out at 7:35 with no reportable action. 

ADJOURNMENT 
 
With no items for further discussion, the Council adjourned to the next regularly scheduled 
meeting on October 7,2019. 
 
 
_______________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 9-16-19  

                    Page 3 of 3 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

From: 
 
Subject: 

City Council Agenda Item #2 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
 
Closed 
 
Emergency 
City Administrator/Finance Director and Utility/Public Works Director Daryl Dye 

Mayor and City Council   

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-022: A Resolution of the City Council of the City of 
Gridley Approving the Memorandum of Understanding Between the International 
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1245 Employees and the Gridley City Council 

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the City Council accept the new Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) between the City and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union 1245 
(IBEW) by adoption of Resolution No. 2019-R-022. 
 
Background 
The City’s current MOU with IBEW expired on June 30, 2019.  The City’s negotiating team including the 
Utility Director, Council representatives, and the Administrator and IBEW conducted multiple 
negotiating sessions regarding a successor agreement and signed a tentative agreement on September 
20, 2019.  The proposed MOU is a three-year contract and contains the following notable changes from 
the prior agreement:  modest compensation adjustments of 3% effective July 1, 2019, 3% effective July 
1, 2020 and 2% effective July 1, 2021, and a 16.9% wage equity adjustment for the Electric Lineworker 
series. The City has received notice that IBEW ratified the agreement on September 26, 2019 at a level 
consistent with City Council provided authorization.  The remaining substantive provisions of the current 
MOU remain unchanged. The IBEW traded a floating holiday for Martin Luther King Day. 
 
Fiscal Impact 
The wages changes and financial impacts for the IBEW, POA, and MMCU are described below.  The costs 
of the first wage equity adjustment for the Electric Lineworker Series is estimated at $280,276.  Funding 
is available for the three proposed resolutions. 
 

Council Authorized Limit 
Funds 
Electric 
Water 
Sewer 
General Fund and Misc. 
Total 

 
FY 20 Year #1 (3%) 
$45,978  
$14,779  
$14,185  
$128,292  
$203,233.74  

FY 21 Year (3% IBEW) 
FY 21 Year (2% POA) 
$47,356.94  
$15,222.61  
$14,610.60  
$88,093.74  
$165,283.88  

 
FY 22 Year #3 (2%) 
$32,518.43  
$10,452.86  
$10,032.61  
$89,855.61  
$142,859.51  

 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals  
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters. 
 
Attachment - Resolution No. 2019-R-022 with Attachments 

 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY APPROVING THE MEMORANDUM 
OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS 

LOCAL 1245 EMPLOYEES AND THE GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-022 

 

 

WHEREAS, negotiations between the City Council of the City of Gridley and representatives o 
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local No. 1245 (IBEW) have been conducted in 
regarding wages, hours, and working conditions for certain designated employees of the City of Gridley 
which negotiations have culminated in the preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of 
which is attached hereto, marked Attachment “A” and incorporated herein; 

 
WHEREAS, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 1245 have ratified the 

Memorandum of Understanding; and,  

 
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to clarify and affirm the existing benefits for current 

employees.  

 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby resolved by the City Council of the City of Gridley as follows: 
1. 

The Memorandum of Understanding (Attachment “A”) between the City of Gridley and 
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers is hereby approved. 

 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced, passed and adopted by the City 
 
Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019, by the following 
vote: 
 

AYES: 

 

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

NOES:                  COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ABSENT:    
 
ABSTAIN:  

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ATTEST:  

 

 

 

__________________________  
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 
 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

__________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 

Attachment A 

 

 
 

 

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

 
 

& 

City of Gridley 

International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 

Local Union 1245 

 

 

 

 
 
July 1, 2019 – June 30, 2022 
 
October 7, 2019 
Resolution No. 2019-R-022 

 

Principles 

 
  
THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, effective as of the 1st day of July, 2019, by and between 
the designated representatives of the CITY OF GRIDLEY (a public agency as defined in Section 3501 (c) of 
Chapter 10 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California), hereinafter 
referred to as the CITY, and the designated representatives of LOCAL UNION 1245 OF INTERNATIONAL 
BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, affiliated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of 
Industrial Organizations (a recognized employee organization as defined in Section 3501 (b) of Chapter 
10 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California), hereinafter referred to as 
UNION, WITNESSETH that: 
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of differences that may from 
time to time arise between them, to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that the CITY, UNION 
and the general public may benefit therefrom, and to establish fair and equitable wages, hours and 
working conditions for certain hereinafter designated employees of the CITY. 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto do agree as follows: 
 
TITLE 1.  PREAMBLE 
 
1.1 
The parties acknowledge the provisions of Chapter 10 (Section 3500, et. seq.) of Division 4 of Title 1 of 
the Government Code of the State of California. 
 
1.2 
It is the policy of the CITY and UNION not to, and neither party will interfere with, intimidate, restrain, 
coerce or discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, sex, color or national origin. 
 
1.3 
This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to promote, and shall be so construed and interpreted 
as to carry out the following general purposes.  The CITY and UNION agree to promote harmonious 
relations between the parties and other employee groups; establish and maintain an orderly bargaining 
procedure; work to provide the best possible service for the general public; facilitate prompt and fair 
disposition of all grievances and disputes; and adhere to this Agreement. 
 
1.4 
Employees have the right to organize or join employee organizations of their own choice for the purpose 
of representation on all matters of employer-employee relations.  Employees are free to join an 
employee organization and shall have the right to refuse to join or participate in the activities of 
employee organizations.  Membership or non-membership in an employee organization is not a 
condition of employment and the employee will not be granted preferential treatment nor will they  be 
withheld from equitable treatment because of either membership or non-membership in such an 
organization.  Each employee has the right to represent themselves individually in their employment 
relations with the CITY.  Employees shall not have the right to strike or to recognize a picket line of a 
labor organization while in the course of the performance of their official duties. 
 
The CITY is in compliance with Section 3500 of the California Government Code as of April 3rd, 2009 
when an agency shop was placed into effect without an agreement between the CITY and UNION. The 
CITY acknowledges that UNION did achieve agency shop status subsequent to the agency shop election 
 

City - Union Relations 

Rights Of Employees  

Non-Discrimination 

 

Page | 1                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
held April 3rd, 2009. The CITY and the UNION agree to remain in compliance with Section 3502.5 of the 
Meyers-Milias-Brown Act. 

 
City Rights 

Section Titles 

1.5 
CITY retains, solely and exclusively, all the rights, powers and authority exercised or held prior to the 
execution of this Memorandum of Understanding, except as expressly limited by law or this 
Memorandum of Understanding.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the rights, powers, 
and authority retained solely and exclusively by CITY include, but are not limited to, the following:  To 
manage and direct its business and personnel; to manage, control and determine the mission of its 
departments, building facilities, and operations; to direct the work force; to hire, transfer, promote, and 
maintain the discipline and efficiency of its employees; to establish work standards, schedules of 
operation and reasonable work load; to specify or assign work requirements; to schedule working hours 
and shifts; to determine the type and scope of work to be performed by CITY's employees and the 
services to be provided; to classify positions; to determine the methods, processes, means and places of 
providing services. 
 
1.6 
Section Titles in this Agreement are for identification purposes only, and are not to be used for the 
purpose of interpreting either the intent or the meaning of the language of any section. 
 
TITLE 2.  RECOGNITION 
 
2.1 
The CITY recognizes the UNION  as the exclusive representative of all employees of the CITY who hold a 
classification listed on Exhibit B.  The provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding, hereinafter set 
forth, shall apply only to those employees of the CITY  for whom  the UNION is the established exclusive 
representative. 
 
2.2 
The provisions of this Agreement shall be limited to their application to employees of CITY in the 
bargaining unit described in Section 2.1.  Wherever the words "employee" and "employees" are used in 
this Agreement, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to the employees 
described in Section 2.1 for whom UNION is the exclusive bargaining representative.  The respective 
obligations of the parties herein shall be operative only insofar as UNION acts in the capacity of 
exclusive bargaining representative of said employees. 
 
2.3 
Before any action is taken which could result in possible discharge or other disciplinary action against an 
employee, the CITY shall provide a written, formal charge which states: 

Representation 

Applicability 

Recognition 

• 
• 
• 
• 

• 
• 

The charge; 
The reason for the charge; 
The proposed action to be taken; 
A copy of all materials upon which the charge is based, to the extent that such 
materials are currently available to the CITY; 
A statement of rights to UNION representation; 
A statement of rights to respond. 

 

 

Page | 2                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 Union Dues and Fair Share Service Fees 

 
Any employee, upon request, shall be permitted representation by a UNION representative.  The 
foregoing shall apply to written reprimands, disciplinary actions and hearings, providing there is no 
unreasonable delay in obtaining representation. 
 
TITLE 3.  UNION SECURITY 
 
3.1 
The CITY shall make monthly payroll deductions of UNION dues or  fair share service fees, as applicable, 
from the earnings of each individual employee who is a member of the UNION, and who individually and 
voluntarily authorizes such deductions in writing in accordance with the provisions of Section 1157.3 of 
the Government Code of the State of California. 
 
Upon the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union 1245 notification to the City of 
written authorization by an employee, deductions shall be made from the second payroll period of each 
month and a check for the total deductions shall be submitted to the Financial Secretary of Local Union 
1245, I.B.E.W., P.O. Box 2547, Vacaville, California 95687, within five (5) working days of the date the 
dues are withheld from the employee's check.  The CITY shall notify the UNION each month at the time 
of the dues/fees transmittal to UNION of any changes since the previous transmittal and the reasons 
therefor.  The Union agrees to notify the City of any membership status changes.  The City shall rely on 
the information provided by the Union regarding canceling or changing deductions.  At least every 120 
days, the City will provide the Union with a Master list of all bargaining unit employees. 
 
The Master list will include the following information: Name, Address, job title, department, and 
Amount of Union Dues withheld.  The City will provide the Union with not less than 10 calendar days’ 
advance notice of the time, date and location of a new hire orientation session of any new employee.  
The City and the IBEW Local 1245 agree that a designated IBEW representative will be offered the 
opportunity to meet with newly hired members during the new hire orientation process or within 10 
working days from the date of hire for 30 minutes. 
 
The International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local Union 1245 shall notify the City of any 
employee who one (1) is a member of the Union who has applied for membership or who elects to pay a 
fair share service fee, and two (2) has given the Union written authorization for deduction of unified 
membership dues, initiation fees and general assessments to the Union.  The Union certifies that it shall 
collect and will maintain records of individual employee authorizations for deduction of said dues or 
fees. 
 
3.2 
The CITY shall provide all new employees with UNION membership application forms, payroll deduction 
authorization forms, and a copy of the Memorandum of Understanding on or before the first day of 
employment.  Such materials will be furnished to the CITY by the UNION. 
 
TITLE 4.  UNION ACTIVITY 
 
4.1 
The CITY shall give the Shop Stewards one (1) hour, with all new employees, for the purpose of 
explaining  CITY policies, UNION Contract orientation, and enrollment into the UNION.  This time shall be 
compensated for by the CITY and shall be done within five (5) days following the date of hire. 
 

Union Information 

Union Orientation 

 

Page | 3                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

Lists 

 
4.2 
On or before February 28th of each year, CITY shall furnish UNION with a list showing the name, social 
security number, home address, home telephone number, employment date, and classification of each 
employee. 
 
Upon ten (10) working days after a new employee is hired, CITY shall provide UNION the following 
information:  name of individual, social security number, employment date, classification, date vacancy 
filled.   
 
4.3 
Neither the CITY nor the UNION, shall interfere with, intimidate, restrain, coerce, or discriminate against 
any employee because of their membership, or non-membership, in UNION or their activity on behalf of 
UNION.  
 
 
4.4 
Representatives Of Union 
The UNION'S representatives shall be permitted by the CITY to transact UNION business on the premises 
of the CITY during working hours.  Such time shall not interfere with the current work in progress. 

Non-Discrimination 

 

 

 

 

 

Negotiations 

Bulletin Boards 

UNION Shop Stewards shall only transact UNION business on the premises of the CITY with approval of 
the appropriate Supervisor, whose permission shall not be unreasonably withheld. 
 
4.5 
The CITY agrees to provide adequate space on the bulletin boards, in employee assembly areas, for 
dissemination of  UNION information to its members. 
 
4.6 
Three (3) UNION Members shall be allowed time off to meet with CITY to negotiate changes in the 
Memorandum of Understanding, retirement plan, or new conditions not covered in the Agreement.  
This time off shall be compensated for by CITY at the normal rate of pay. 
 
The CITY and the UNION incorporate herein the terms and conditions of the Most Favored Nations 
(MFN) Letter of Agreement executed by both parties August 6, 2014. 
 
TITLE 5.  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
5.1 
It is the intent of both the UNION and the CITY that the processing of disputes through the Grievance 
Procedure will give meaning and content to the Memorandum of Understanding (M.O.U.) through a 
concise procedure for resolution of disputes.  It is therefore the stated purpose of this procedure to: 

Statement Of Intent – Notice 

•  Avoid grievances and misunderstandings; 
•  Orally handle as many grievances as possible within the framework of this Agreement; 
•  Expeditiously investigate and quickly dispose of such grievances or problems; 

The UNION and the CITY agree that they will continue to work within the framework of the Agreement 
to further the above-stated objectives.  Should the above fail to resolve a grievance, the following steps 
shall be utilized to resolve the dispute between the parties. Disputes involving the following subjects 
shall be determined by the Grievance Procedure established herein: 

 

Page | 4                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 

• 

 

Interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, including Exhibits thereto, 
Letters of Agreement, informal interpretations and clarifications executed by the UNION and the 
CITY. 

•  Discipline, other than discharge, demotion, or suspension of any employee. 
•  Disputes as to whether a matter is proper subject for the Grievance Procedure. 

Step One:  Shop Stewards 

Step Two:  Department Head 

Step Three:  City Administrator 

Objections or disputes regarding discharge, demotions, or suspensions of any employee are not proper 
subjects to be determined by the Grievance Procedure established in Title 5 of this Memorandum of 
Understanding, but are proper subjects under Title 6 of this Memorandum. 
 
5.2 
The initial Step in the adjustment of a grievance shall be the presentation of a written grievance setting 
forth (1) the action complained of, (2) the rule, procedure or other policy claimed to have been violated 
or not followed by the action, and (3) the employee's proposed solution, followed by a discussion 
between the Shop Steward and the immediate Supervisor directly involved, or Department Head as 
applicable, who shall answer within five (5) working days.  This Step shall be started within fifteen (15) 
working days of the date of the action complained of, or the date the grievant became aware of the 
incident which is the basis for the grievance. 
 
5.3 
If a grievance is not resolved in the initial Step, the Second Step shall be a discussion between either the 
Shop Steward, or the UNION'S Business Representative, and the Department Head who shall answer 
within ten (10) working days.  This Step shall be taken within ten (10) working days of the date of the 
immediate Supervisor's answer in Step One. 
 
5.4 
If a grievance is not resolved in the Second Step, the Third Step shall be presentation of the grievance, in 
writing, by the UNION'S Business Representative to the City Administrator who shall answer, in writing, 
within ten (10) working days.  The Third Step shall be taken within ten (10) working days of the date of 
the answer in Step Two. 
 
5.5 
The decision of the City Administrator shall be final and binding unless either party requests mediation 
by filing, with the City Clerk, a written request within ten (10) working days of the City Administrator's 
decision.  The Fourth Step shall be a presentation of the grievance to the State of California Mediation 
and Conciliation Service.  The parties shall request the first available date for a review of the grievance.  
The type of mediation assistance shall be determined by the assigned State Mediator.  Mediation shall 
be non-binding. 
 
5.6 
If the grievance is not resolved by the parties in mediation, the City Administrator's decision (as 
determined in Step 3, above) shall be binding, unless a timely notice of appeal to the City Council is filed.  
The notice of appeal shall be in writing and filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) days following the 
conclusion of the mediation.  A majority decision of the quorum of  City Council at the appeal hearing 
shall be binding upon both parties. 
 

Step Four:  State Mediator 

Step Five: City Council 

 

Page | 5                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
In considering any grievance brought before the City Council, the City Council may conduct such 
additional investigation and take such additional evidence as it may desire, in the Council's sole 
discretion. 
 
5.7 
Grievances shall be processed from one step to the next within the time limit prescribed in each of the 
steps. Time limits may be extended by mutual agreement. Any grievance for which a disposition is not 
made at any step within the time limit prescribed, or any extension which may be agreed to, may be 
referred to the next step in the grievance procedure. Time limits shall run from the date when time for 
disposition expired.  

Grievance Processing 

Enabler Clause 

5.8 
Notwithstanding the aforementioned procedure, any individual employee shall have the right to present 
grievances to the CITY and to have such grievances adjusted without the intervention of UNION, 
provided that the adjustment shall not be inconsistent with this Memorandum of Understanding, and 
provided, further, the UNION'S Business Representative shall be given an opportunity to be present at 
such adjustment, as an observer only. 
 
TITLE 6.  DISCIPLINARY APPEAL PROCESS 
 
6.1 
Pre-Disciplinary Procedures Applicable to All Regular Employees (Applies only to demotions, 
Suspensions, dismissals): 
 
When the decision has been made by the Department Head that disciplinary action might be taken 
against an employee, the City Administrator shall be contacted so that all disciplinary procedures are 
followed.  The Department Head and/or City Administrator will then prepare a notice of intended 
disciplinary action to be given to the employee which shall include as attachments: 

Pre-Disciplinary Procedures 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

 

 

A written copy of the charges being made; 
The grounds for such charges; 
All documents which support such action; 
The type of disciplinary action intended; 
Copies of Personnel Rules violated and appeal procedures. 

 
Notice shall also include a statement advising the employee that he/she may respond to the charges 
either verbally or in writing within a reasonable, specified time period which will not exceed ten (10) 
days starting from the date of receipt of the notice. 

The Department Head and/or City Administrator shall make themselves available to hear verbal 
responses or answers to the proposed disciplinary actions and/or consider written responses submitted 
by the employee. 

All information supplied by the employee in response to the proposed action will be considered by the 
Department Head and/or City Administrator prior to making a final decision on what disciplinary action 
is appropriate. 

During the pre-disciplinary hearing, employees may be represented by a representative of their choice.  
However, the employee shall only have the right to show cause, if any, why the proposed disciplinary 
 

Page | 6                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
action should not be taken. The employee shall be allowed to see all documents and material which are 
being considered to support the proposed disciplinary action. 

 

Upon completing the pre-disciplinary procedures, the Department Head and/or City Administrator may 
resolve the matter without taking disciplinary action, or take the proposed action, or modified action as 
may seem appropriate. 

 

 

 

 

If disciplinary action is taken, the employee shall be advised in writing of his/her right of appeal in 
accordance with Section 6.2. 

Exception to Pre-Discipline Procedure 
When in the opinion of the Department Head and/or the City Administrator the best interest of the CITY 
would be served by taking immediate disciplinary action against an employee for violation of a CITY rule 
or regulation, the Department Head and/or City Administrator may suspend an employee without pay 
for a period not exceeding two (2) work days, or one (1) twenty-four (24) hour shift in any one (1) 
month.  When taking further action, the Department Head and/or City Administrator shall document the 
circumstances requiring such action. 

In the event an emergency situation exists requiring immediate action to protect City property, to 
maintain reasonable community relations, to protect the employee's fellow workers, or other 
appropriate reasons, the Department Head and/or City Administrator may take immediate disciplinary 
action, as deemed appropriate, to relieve the emergency situation.  When taking such action, the 
Department Head and/or City Administrator shall document the circumstances requiring such action. 

When immediate disciplinary action is taken by a Department Head and/or City Administrator, as an 
exception to the pre-disciplinary procedure, the employee shall be provided written documentation of 
the action at the earliest possible time.  The notice shall also advise the employee of the right to appeal 
the disciplinary action in accordance with Section 6.2. 

 

6.2 

Right Of Appeal 
 

Appeal to City Clerk 
Any regular employee who has completed the initial probationary period shall be given the right to 
appeal a suspension, demotion, dismissal or other discipline imposed on that employee.  This shall 
initially involve a State Mediator. 
 
Method of Appeal 
A regular employee shall file a written notice within seven (7) calendar days, starting from the date of 
receipt of the notice of disciplinary action.  The appeal shall be addressed to the City Clerk.  The appeal 
shall set forth the matter appealed and the action desired by the appellant.  Within seven (7) working 
days after receipt of the appeal, the City Clerk shall request a review by a State Mediator. 
 
Notice   
The City Clerk shall notify all persons named or affected by the appeal of the date, time, and place of 
review by the State Mediator. 
 
 
 

 

Page | 7                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
Review by Mediator 
When a disciplinary action is reviewed by a State Mediator, the Mediator shall determine the type of 
assistance that is provided.  The Mediator may hold a hearing or conduct additional investigation as may 
be necessary.  In addition to the subject matter on appeal, the employee's personnel file shall be 
reviewed.  The personnel file is defined as that file which is maintained in the City Personnel 
Department.  Unless physically unable to do so, the appellant shall appear personally before the 
Mediator at the time and place of the review. 
 
The appellant may be represented by any person he/she may select and may produce relevant oral or 
documentary evidence.  This process shall be closed to the public.  Mediation shall be non-binding. 
 
Appeal to the City Council 
In the event that mediation fails to resolve the matter, the decision of the Department Head/ City 
Administrator in Section 6.1 shall be final and binding unless a written notice of appeal is filed with the 
City Clerk within seven (7) days following the conclusion of mediation. 

Method of Appeal 
A regular employee shall file a written notice within seven (7) calendar days, starting from the date of 
completion of mediation.  The appeal shall be addressed to the City Council and filed with the City Clerk.  
The appeal shall set forth the matter appealed from, set forth a statement of the action desired by the 
appellant and list the reasons for the desired actions.  Within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the 
appeal, the City Clerk shall inform each member of the City Council, the City Administrator and all other 
persons named or affected by the appeal. 

Notice of Hearing 
When an appeal has been filed, a date shall be set for a hearing on the appeal.  The date for the hearing 
shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days from the date of filing of the appeal.  The City Clerk shall 
notify all interested parties of the date, time and place of the hearing. 

 
Hearing 
When an appeal has been filed, the City Council shall review the record,  and make a final determination 
of the issue.  Both parties will be allowed to present a brief presentation concerning their interpretation 
of the record. 

 

Findings 
The City Council, within fifteen (15) calendar days after said hearing, shall make a finding.  The City 
Council may: 

follow the recommendations of the State Mediator if any 
sustain the original disciplinary action 
reinstate the employee 
order any disciplinary action which it judges to be appropriate based on the 
evidence 

 

 

• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 

The final findings of the City Council shall be the final administrative step in the disciplinary appeal 
process. 
 
 
 

 

Page | 8                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
Extension of time 
Any time limit contained in this title may be extended by mutual agreement of the employee and the 
City Administrator. 
 
TITLE 7. DISCIPLINARY PROBATION 
 
7.1   
Disciplinary Probabtion is a disciplinary penalty which may be imposed in lieu of termination, when the 
circumstances warrant.  It is distinguished from the normal probationary period for new or recently 
promoted employees.  It may be imposed for serious violations for  a specific period of time not to 
exceed one year.  Employees placed on Disciplinary Probabion may be dismissed for failure to meet any 
requirement imposed as a condition of such status.  Employees on Disciplinary Probation do not retain 
senior rights during a layoff or have permanent status.  An employee, who is terminated for a specific 
violation identified in the notice of Disciplinary Probation, does not have appeal rights. 

Disciplinary Probation 

 
Background  

7.2 
Disciplinary action may be imposed after the employer has complied with pre-disciplinary procedures 
that are consistent with court decisions, state law, and the memorandum of understanding.  These 
provide the employee with written information about the charges, the grounds for such charges, the 
documentation supporting such action, the type of disciplinary action intended, copies of applicable 
personnel rules and appeal procedures.  A pre-disciplinary hearing is scheduled where the employee (or 
representative) may respond to the charges.  Following this hearing, and a review of the facts, discipline 
may or may not be imposed. 

Disciplinary actions, can include written warnings, suspension, demotion, or termination.  Disciplinary 
Probation could be imposed, following pre-disciplinary procedures, in cases where the Department 
Head or the City Administrator determine the the employee has commetted a serious offense that 
warrants termination.  If the Department Head or City Administrator believe that the employee could 
improve if given an opportunity for rehabilitation, this disciplinary action could be imposed. 

When disciplinary probation is imposed, the employee is provided with a list of violations that will result 
in immediate termination.  If an employee violates a rule that is not on the list, the matter is handled as 
a separate disciplinary action. 
 
Upon successful completion of the probationary period, the employee is returned to permanent status 
will full restoration of seniority rights. 
 
TITLE 8.      POLICY FOR A DRUG AND ALCOHOL FREE WORKPLACE 
 
8.1 
The City of Gridley has a strong commitment to provide a safe work place for its employees and to 
promote employee health.  The City has developed this policy regarding alcohol and drug use to 
reinforce this commitment and to comply with Federal law, specifically, the Drug-free Workplace Act of 
1988.  Our goal is to establish and maintain a work environment free from the adverse effects of alcohol 
and drug use.  This policy applies to positions represented by the I.B.E.W. Local Union 1245 Bargaining 
Unit. 

Purpose 

 

 

 
 

 

Page | 9                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 

 

 

 
8.2 
The unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation or use of a controlled substance on the job or on 
City property is prohibited. 

Use And Sale Of Drugs 

 

 

 

 
 

Illegal drug use, or alcohol use which impairs and employee’s job performance and      
interferes with regular work duties may result in disciplinary action. 
 
If a supervisor has reasonable cause to suspect that an employee is not fit for duty,                               
he/she may require the employee to submit to a medical clarification examination by a  physician who is 
qualified to assess impairment caused by drugs or alcohol.  The physicial will determine, after a physical 
examination, whether the employee is fit or unfit for duty.  During the examination, the physician may 
request that the employee provide a urine sample for drug or alcohol screening if the physicial suspects 
the employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol.  The decision to require a fitness for duty test 
must be based on a reasonable and articulable belief that the employee is using alcohol or a prohibited 
drug on the basis of specific, contemporaneous physical, behavorial, or performance indicators of 
probable alcohol and drug use. 
 
Any employee whose on-duty or off-duty conduct leads to a conviction of any criminal drug statute mus 
notify his or her Department Head of that conviction no later than five days after such conviction. 

 

Prevention of Accidents 

TITLE 9.  SAFETY 
 
9.1 
The CITY desires to maintain a safe place of employment and to that end the CITY shall make all 
reasonable provisions for the safety of employees in the performance of their work.  It is recognized, 
pursuant to the provisions of SB 198, that the employer and employee jointly share responsibility for 
providing and insuring a safe and healthful workplace. 
 
The CITY and the UNION shall cooperate in promoting the realization of the responsibility of the 
individual employee and Supervisor with regard to the prevention of accidents, and to that end both 
parties agree to comply with all State and Federal Health and Safety Laws, rules and resolutions. 
 
In the event any applicable State or Federal Health or Safety rules are revised or adopted that conflict 
with current rules, such rule shall be revised. 
 
In addition to the foregoing, CITY shall inform UNION of such new rule or revision for the 
parties to meet on a mutually agreed date to discuss the effects. 
 
TITLE 10.  EMPLOYEE STATUS 
 
10.1 
Employees will be designated as Regular, Probationary, Part-time, or Temporary depending upon the 
purpose for which they were hired and their length of continuous service with the CITY. 
 
10.2    Employee Defined 
A regular employee is defined as an employee who has satisfactorily completed a six (6) month 
probationary period of employment with the CITY. 
 

Employee Designation 

 

Page | 10                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
10.3    Probationary Employee-Newly Hired Or Promoted Employee 
A probationary employee is defined as an employee hired for a position that has been regularly 
established and is of indeterminate duration.  A probationary employee will receive not less than the 
minimum rate for the job and will be eligible for such leave pay, holiday pay, vacation pay, insurance 
coverage or items of a similar nature.  Upon completion of six (6) months of continuous satisfactory 
service with the CITY, a probationary employee will be given the status of a regular employee; if the City 
Administrator determines, in his/her sole discretion that a probationary employee has not performed 
satisfactorily during the first six (6) months of employment with the CITY, the City Administrator, on or 
before the last day of the sixth month of employment, may extend that employee's probationary period 
for a time not to exceed an additional six (6) months.  The CITY will notify the UNION in writing of any 
such decision.  A probationary employee may be terminated at any time during the probationary period, 
with or without cause, and the probationary employee shall have no right to appeal the termination.  
 
Notwithstanding Gridley Personnel Rules 7.2 (Probationary Period of New Employees) and 7.3 
(Probationary Period of Promoted Employees), it is acknowledged that the probationary period for the 
position of Apprentice Lineworker shall coincide with the length of the National Electrical Course for the 
Apprentice Lineworker.  It is further agreed that the City Personnel Rules may be amended to reflect this 
change. 
 
10.4    Temporary Employee 
A temporary employee is defined as an employee hired by the day for occasional or seasonal work for a 
period not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five (125) days, or 1,000 hours.  A temporary employee 
will receive not less than the minimum rate for the job but will not be eligible for sick leave pay (unless 
otherwise required according to federal and state labor law regulations), holiday pay, vacation pay, 
insurance coverage, retirement benefits or items of a similar nature.  Upon completion of one hundred 
twenty-five (125) days, or 1,000 hours, of continuous service with the CITY, temporary employee will be 
given the status of probationary employee. 
 
10.5    Regular Part-Time Employee 
An employee appointed to fill, on a less than full time basis, a budgeted position shown in salary 
resolution.  
 
Any employee hired into a regular part-time position shall be provided all benefits based on a pro-rata 
basis as compared to the normal work hours for his/her classification, with the exception of Medical and 
Dental, which shall be available to the employee, with the CITY and employee equally sharing the cost. 
 
TITLE 11.  WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS 
 
11.1  Wages 
Employees shall be paid the wages established for their classification.  When an employee is assigned to 
work at a position having a higher classification, that employee shall be paid at the rate equal to the 
lowest step of the higher classification or at minimum the lowest step of the higher classification's range 
which provides a 3 percent increase in thier present salary, provided that employee has worked at the 
higher classification for 10 consecutive working days. 
 
Said work performed at a position having a higher classification shall be authorized, in writing, by the 
affected Department Director and approved by the City Administrator, prior to the commencement of 
time credit toward the 10-day requirement.  Written authorization shall not be unreasonably withheld. 

 

Page | 11                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

Pay Day 

 
 
11.2 
If a pay date falls on a non-workday,  payment shall be made on the preceding work day.  Wages shall be 
paid on a bi-weekly basis. With City Administrator approval, advances on wages for one pay period may 
be allowed.  City Administrator has sole discretion on advances. 
 
The City of Gridley has implemented a payroll direct deposit program with a local bank.  All City 
employees are eligible for this program. Costs associated with this program will be paid by the City. 

 

 

11.3  Wage Schedule 
Attached hereto and made a part hereof is Exhibit A titled “International Brotherhood of Electrical 
Workers Salary Schedule”. The salary schedule contained in Exhibit A, reflect the actual compensation to 
be provided and will contain additional schedules generated during the course of the Memorandum of 
Understanding, based upon adjustments described in this section. 

These schedules will incorporate Cost of Living Adjustments of 3% retroactive to July 1, 2019, 3% 
effective July 1, 2020, and 2% effective July 1, 2021. 
 
Effective July 1, 2019, and July 1 in the subsequent years of the agreement, the base salaries of the 
Electrical Lineworker series shall be adjusted to the lower quartile, or twenty-five percent (25%) of the 
spectrum of the seven (7) utilities during June 2019, 2020, and 2021.  The survey shall be based on an 
update of the salary survey performed jointly by the CITY and IBEW during the 2019 negotiations which 
includes the following electrical utilities:  City of Healdsburg, Lassen Municipal Utility District, Plumas 
Sierra Rural Electrical Coop, City of Redding, City of Shasta Lake, Truckee-Donner Public Utility District, 
and the City of Ukiah.  In the event that the Cost of Living adjustment described above exceeds the 
adjustment based on the survey, the Electrical Lineworker series shall receive the Cost of Living 
adjustment. 
 
Based on the utility survey done by the City and Union during negotiations, the Electrical Lineworker 
series shall receive an equity adjustment equal to sixteen-and-nine-tenths percent (16.9%) retroactive to 
July 1, 2019, during the 2019-2020 fiscal year of the agreement.  The Electric Lineworker series shall 
include Electric Supervisor, Senior Lineworker, Lineworker and Apprentice Lineworker. 
 
The Electrical Lineworker position shall have a single wage rate. (previously identified as Step 5).  The 
Apprentice Lineworker position shall have a 7 step wage scale during the 3.5 year Apprenticeship 
program as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following completion of Apprenticeship program, Apprentice advances to Electrical Lineworker wage 
rate. 
 
 

60% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
65% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
70% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
75% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
80% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
85% of Electrical Lineworker salary 
90% of Electrical Lineworker salary 

1st  through 6th  month 
 
7th  through 12th  month  
13th  through 18th  month 
19th  through 24th  month 
25th through 30th  month 
31st through 36th  month 
37th  through 42nd  month 

Step 1 
Step 2 
Step 3 
Step 4 
Step 5 
Step 6 
Step 7 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page | 12                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
 
11.4  
The following percentage will be added to the employees base salary upon completion of the following 
years of consecutive service: 

Longevity Pay 

 

Years of Service  
10 years of service 
15 years of service 
20 years of service 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

Total Longevity Pay 
1% of  salary 
2% of salary 
3% of salary 

Classification Specifications 

Employee Suggestion Award Program 

11.5 
All positions represented by this bargaining unit are attached hereto and made a part hereof in Exhibit 
B, titled “International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Job Descriptions”. 
 
11.6 
The City shall reward employees for suggestions which, if implemented, allow for cost savings for the 
City.  The parameters of this program are outlined via resolution of the City Council and are subject to 
amendment at the will of the City Council. 
 
11.7 
5% additional compensation (Assignment Pay) will be added to the base pay of the Senior Maintenance 
Worker (Plant Operator) for performing the primary duty of operating the sewer plant and maintaining 
the water system, in addition to other duties of classification for Senior Maintenance Worker. 

Assignment Pay – Senior Maintenance Worker (Sewer-Water) 

11.8    Sewer/Water And Electric Meter Certificates 
Public Works personnel covered by this memorandum who are in possession of Certificates issued by 
the State of California (listed below) are eligible for a flat rate incentive pay as listed in the wage 
schedule, Exhibit A: 

D2 Distribution Certificate  
Level I Wastewater Treatment certificate 
Level II Wastewater Treatment certificate  
Level I Water Treatment certificate  
Level II Water Treatment certificate  
Backflow certificate 
Electrical Meter Certification 

Electrical Meter Certification: Lineman who are assigned to perform work on electrical meters effective 
shall receive the equivalent flat dollar amount of $2,639.88 annually. 
 
11.9   Bilingual Pay 
An employee shall receive bilingual pay that will be a flat rate as listed in the wage schedule Exhibit A, if: 

the CITY determines that bilingual skill in a specific foreign language in a  specific job 
classification will improve operations; and 
the employee agrees to utilize his or her bilingual skills on the job; and 
the employee is able to demonstrate bilingual proficiency that is satisfactory to the  CITY; and  
the City Administrator, utilizing the guidelines above, may approve bilingual pay. 

Page | 13                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

 

• 

• 
• 
• 

 

 

 
 
11.10   Class B Drivers License Incentive Pay 
Personnel within the bargaining unit covered by this memorandum who meet the following 
requirements are eligible for flat rate incentive as listed in the wage schedule Exhibit A, if they: 

•  Possess Class B Commercial License 
•  Have necessary endorsements to operate specific vehicles used in their department 
•  Are assigned to operate equipment requiring such a license 
•  Assignment is approved by their Department Head 

 
Personnel within the Electrical Lineworker series shall have the 5% Class B Drivers License incentive pay 
incorporated into their base salary and possession of such license shall become a job requirement. The 
Electrical Lineworker series will not be eligible for additional compensation for a Class B Driver’s License.  

11.11  Rubber Glove Certification 
Members of the Electrical Lineworker series who have received rubber glove certification and who 
perform duties requiring direct rubber glove contact on live 12 KV electrical lines shall be eligible for a 
premium pay of 8% effective July 1, 2014, provided that they meet the following program requirements: 

•  Participation is voluntary 
•  Consulting services, approved by the City Council, may be used to develop the program and 

 

provide training at CITY cost 

other legal requirements 

•  Gridley Electrical Department Rubber Glove program is certified by Cal OSHA and meets any 

•  Each individual participating in the program must satisfactorily complete the training program 

and recertify at required intervals 
Individuals who do not take the training, fail to satisfactorily complete the training, or who fail 
to recertify under the terms of the program are ineligible for this Premium pay 

• 

•  The pay becomes effective on the first day of the month following certification of the employee 

11.12  Cell Phone Allowance 
A cell phone allowance of $40 per month is established for members of the bargaining unit that meet 
the following qualifications: 

•  CITY determines that a need exists for the individual to have a cell phone available to conduct 

•  Employee agrees to carry and use a personal cell phone for CITY business while on duty and on 

•  Employee provides CITY with proof of service and cell phone number. 
•  Employee must agree to inform CITY of any lapse in phone service, phone number, or provider. 

The allowance will be paid within 30 days following the billing period. CITY shall not be 
responsible for additional phone charges beyond the $40 per month.  This limit does not apply 
during a natural disaster (declared) if the employee incurs an unusually high level of phone use 
while actively engaged in response or recovery activity. 

•  Public Works Leadworker and the Electric Customer Service Technician have been determined 

as lassifications to have cell phones 
 

In addition to the provisions above, CITY agrees to provide a CITY cell phone for use by electrical and 
public works personnel assigned to standby.  The phone may be used for official CITY business only and  
is to be carried while on standby.  In the event that an individual assigned to standby prefers to carry a 

 

Page | 14                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

CITY business. 

standby. 

 
personal cell phone in lieu of a CITY provided phone, that individual must notify his or her supervisor so 
that information can be provided to dispatch. 

 

TITLE 12.  HOURS AND OVERTIME 
 
12.1    Workweek And Basic Workweek 
A workweek is defined as consisting of seven (7) consecutive calendar days, Sunday through Saturday, 
and except as otherwise provided herein, a basic workweek is defined to consist of five (5) consecutive 
workdays of eight (8) hours each, Monday through Friday.  The regular work hours shall be from 8:00 
A.M. to 5:00 P.M. with one (1) hour off for lunch.  Starting times, and quitting times, and meal times 
may be changed by mutual consent so as not to incur the penalty of overtime.  There shall also be 
allowed two (2) break periods, each of fifteen (15) minutes duration.  The first break shall be taken 
midway in the first half of the shift, and the second shall be taken midway in the last half of the shift. 
 
12.2  Overtime Defined 
Overtime is defined as: 

•  Time worked in excess of forty (40) hours in a workweek; 
•  Time worked in excess of eight (8) hours on a scheduled workday; 
•  Time worked on a non-workday; 
•  Time worked outside of regular hours on a workday, and; 
•  Time worked on a Holiday. 

 

Overtime shall be computed to the nearest one-quarter hour.  Overtime shall be authorized in advance 
by the immediate Supervisor, Department Head or City Administrator. 
 
12.3  Overtime Compensation 
Overtime compensation shall be paid at a rate equivalent to one and one-half (1 ½) times the individual 
employee’s straight time rate of pay. Call back overtime is defined as overtime requested of the 
employee after there has been a release from work by the CITY.  The minimum time for which overtime 
shall be paid under this Section is four (4) hours on a non-workday and two (2) hours on a workday. 
 
12.4    Standby / Restricted Standby 
Standby – Whenever any employee is required to remain available on a standby basis, he/she shall be 
compensated for two (2) hours at his/her respective overtime rate of pay for each day (24-hour period) 
of standby duty.  Standby duty means time in excess of the official workweek during which an employee 
is required to return to duty when called to do so.  
 
Restricted Standby – Whenever any employee is required to remain available on a standby basis and be 
immediately available to a department’s requirement for return to duty, he/she shall receive the 
minimum wage as defined within the Fair Labor Standards Act. If such standby hours exceed the 
employee’s assigned work period, such employee may be eligible for applicable minimum wage 
overtime. Such employee shall have his/her regular rate of pay and standby pay calculated in 
accordance with the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Any standby pay shall not be less 
than the equivalent of two (2) hours pay at the overtime rate for a twenty-four (24) hour period. 
 
Employees scheduled for Public Works Standby duty must be in possession of the valid State of 
California Water Distribution Certificate that is required for the City of Gridley’s water system. 

 

Page | 15                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
The possession of a City cell phone shall not constitute standby duty unless the appointing authority or 
his/her designated representative has specifically assigned the employee to standby duties. 
 
12.5  Overtime Meals 
Employees who work four or more consecutive overtime hours (between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 
6:00 a.m.) shall be entitled to a meal.  In the event that food is unavailable, the employee shall be 
provided with a voucher for a meal at a local restaurant.  The value of the meal shall be in accordance 
with the meal allowance as stated in the City of Gridley Travel Rate Information Policy.   
 
Payment of Meals during Local Emergencies or Extraordinary Events 
During local emergencies or extraordinary events such as floods, extended power outages or major 
storms, the City Administrator shall have the authority to approve employee meals in situations where it 
is necessary to keep the employee on duty beyond the normal workday.  Such meals shall be in 
accordance with the meal allowance as stated in the City of Gridley Travel Rate Information Policy.  

 

 Paid Rest Period 

12.6 
Periodically, City crews may be assigned to work an unusual number of overtime hours due to 
emergency conditions that require restoration of utilities or other similar situations.  CITY recognizes 
that safety could be jeopardized if employees are required to report to work for a regular shift following 
such a period of extended work activity.  
 
The onsite supervisor, shall have the authority to grant up to 4 hours of paid rest time in such situations 
in the interest of work safety. A department head may grant up to 8 hours of paid rest time under such 
circumstances.  CITY reserves the right to issue guidelines for such determinations. 
 
TITLE 13.  PROMOTION AND TRANSFER 
 
13.1    Posting Vacancies 
When new jobs or additional jobs are created, or vacancies, other than temporary vacancies occur, 
which the CITY intends to fill, the CITY shall post vacancy notices on all bulletin boards and a copy shall 
be mailed to the UNION’S Business Representative.  Vacancy notices shall be posted for a period of five 
(5) working days, and shall set forth the date of posting the classification and location of the job, its 
duties, qualifications required and the rate of pay.  Regular employees may submit bids on such jobs by 
U.S. mail to the CITY office and the CITY shall not consider any bids postmarked more than five (5) days 
from the date that the five (5) day posting period expired.  In filling jobs, CITY shall give preferential 
consideration to employees in the order of their CITY seniority. 
 
13.2    Senior Maintenance Worker 
Employees, without sewer and water certificates, reclassified or promoted to the position of Senior 
Maintenance Worker, may, with the approval of the Director of Public Works, be given up to 12 months 
to secure certificates. 
 
13.3    Bypass For Lack Of Qualifications 
Notwithstanding Title 13.1, the CITY need not consider the bid of any employee who does not possess 
the knowledge, skill, efficiency, attitude, adaptability, ability to work with others and physical ability 
required for the job on which the bid is made.  The CITY shall be the sole judge of the qualification.  
When the CITY intends to appoint an employee to a vacancy in preference to an employee with greater 

 

Page | 16                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
seniority, the CITY shall notify the UNION’S Business Representative of its intent prior to such 
appointments. 

 

TITLE 14.  DEMOTION AND LAYOFF 
 
14.1    Notice 
 When it becomes necessary for the CITY to lay off regular employees, the CITY shall give employees 
involved as much notice as possible; but in no event will such employees receive less than two (2) weeks 
notice of layoff.  Where probationary or temporary employees are to be laid off, no notice of layoff need 
to given. 
 
14.2    Layoff 
When it becomes necessary to reduce the work force, senior employees shall be retained, provided they 
have necessary skill and ability to perform the required work. 
 
TITLE 15.  LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
 
15.1    Eligibility 
“Leave of Absence” may be granted to regular employees by the City Administrator, or his duly 
authorized representative, for urgent and substantial reasons, provided that adequate arrangements 
can be made to take care of the employee’s duties  without undue interference with the normal routine 
of work.  All applications for “Leave of Absence” shall be made in writing except when the employee is 
unable to do so. 
 
15.2    Period Of Leave 
The City Administrator may grant a “Leave of Absence” without pay to a regular employee for a period 
not in excess of ninety (90) days.  The City Council may grant an additional “Leave of Absence” without 
pay to such employee if his personal circumstances and his service to the CITY warrant the granting 
thereof. 
 
15.3    Status   
An employee’s status as a regular employee will not be impaired by such a “Leave of Absence” and his 
seniority shall accrue.  During the period of a “Leave of Absence,” an employee’s position and tour of 
duty will only be filled on a temporary basis. 
 
15.4    Commence And End 
A “Leave of Absence” will commence on and include the first workday on which the employee is absent 
and terminate with, and includes the workday preceding the day the employee returns to work.  The 
conditions under which an employee will be restored to employment on the termination of “Leave of 
Absence” shall be clearly stated by the CITY, on the form on which application for the leave is made. 
 
15.5    Reinstatement 
Upon an employee’s return to work after a “Leave of Absence” he will be reinstated to his former 
position and working conditions, except where there has been a reduction of forces or his position has 
been eliminated during said leave, he will be returned to the position he would have been had he not 
been on a “Leave of Absence.” 
 
 

 

Page | 17                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
15.6    Termination Of Service 
If an employee fails to return to work on the first working day after the expiration of his “Leave of 
Absence,” he will be deemed to have resigned from employment with the CITY and his employment will 
terminate, provided, however, that the City Administrator may, for good cause shown, authorize an 
additional five (5) days extension of the “Leave of Absence” provided that application for such extension 
is made prior to the expiration of his “Leave of Absence.” 
 
Any employee who accepts gainful employment while on “Leave of Absence,” terminates his 
employment unless such employment is approved by the CITY. 
 
15.7    City “Leave Of Absence” 
Members of UNION who are temporarily or permanently appointed to positions within the CITY, but 
outside the jurisdiction of the UNION, shall at their request, receive “Leaves of Absence” for periods not 
to exceed one (1) year.  An employee who is granted such a “Leave of Absence” shall continue to accrue 
seniority, and retain the right to return to his previous classification.  However, should the employee 
successfully seek employment within the jurisdiction of the UNION after his “Leave” expires, he shall 
suffer loss of seniority for job bidding purposes only.  He shall work within the jurisdiction of UNION for 
a period equal to the time he was outside of the UNION jurisdiction to receive his job bidding seniority. 
 
15.8    Military “Leave Of Absence” 
An employee who leaves his employment with the CITY to enter the Military service or other service 
where his rights are protected by Federal and State law, shall be granted a “Leave of Absence” under the 
provision of Section 15.1 to 15.6, inclusive.  Upon qualifying for reemployment under any such law, and 
being reemployed, he will be granted a further retroactive “Leave of Absence” to cover the balance of 
his absence. 
 
15.9    National Guard 
An employee attached to the National Guard or Military Reserves who is required to participate in the 
annual training encampment, reserve meetings, and/or is called to active duty, shall be so compensated 
up to thirty (30) calendar days and shall be given up to one hundred eighty (180) days of “Leave of 
Absence,” provided the employee has at least one (1) year of service.  Employees shall be placed on 
“Leave of Absence” only upon receipt of the Order to Duty. 

15.10    Funeral Leave 
A regular employee shall be granted time off with pay to attend the funeral of a member of the 
immediate family.  The immediate family shall be limited to:  employee’s spouse, parents, grandparents, 
children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, and mother-in-law.  
Funeral leave shall consist of up to three (3) working days per occasion.  In other cases, the City 
Administrator may approve paid funeral leave. 
 
Employees who have not attained regular status shall be allowed time off with pay, as provided for in 
the above paragraph. 
 
15.11    Jury Duty 
Employees called for jury duty, grand jury trial, or inquest shall be granted the necessary time off for this 
purpose under the following conditions:  A regular employee called for jury duty, grand jury trial, or 
inquest shall be compensated by the CITY for the difference between his regular wages and any 
compensation received as a juror.  Expenses and travel allowances which are not taxable and payment 

 

Page | 18                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 

 
for jury duty on non-workdays will not be included in computing the remuneration received from the 
Court. 
 
15.12    Benefits While On Leave 
An employee on “Leave of Absence” as provided herein shall not accrue vacation or sick leave benefits 
nor maintain group insurance coverage.  An employee, may, however, at his option and expense, 
maintain his group insurance coverage providing the full monthly premium is received in the Finance 
Department of the CITY on or before the first day of the month for which the premium is intended.  
Notwithstanding the above, however, if the leave of absence is a result of exhaustion of sick leave 
benefits, an employee’s group insurance may be maintained for up to three (3) calendar months on the 
normal premium-sharing formula, providing the employee pays his share of the premium on a timely 
basis. 
 
15.13    Application 
This Title applies to any and all employees on “Leave of Absence” as of the effective date of this 
Agreement. 
 
15.14   Employee Obligation to Communicate with Employer While on Leave 
Employee shall have the obligation to reasonably communicate with the CITY when Employee 
is absent from work due to leave. Employee’s obligation to communicate during vacation leave shall be 
at Employee’s reasonable discretion, and shall not be a requirement subject to these provisions. At all 
other times and for all other types of leave, Employee shall be under a duty to return phone calls and 
other electronic communications from the CITY from time to time related to Employee’s leave status as 
well as to respond to the CITY’s questions concerning matters relevant to Employee’s job with the CITY. 
To the extent physically able to do so, Employee shall be obligated to return phone call promptly and 
within 24 hours if Employee is unable to respond to the telephone when the call is initially placed. As to 
other electronic communications, employee shall promptly respond within 24 hours (again, assuming 
Employee is physically able to do so). Additionally, Employee shall, to the extent physically able to do so, 
make themselves personally available to discuss with the CITY Employee’s job status and matters related 
thereto as well as to discuss matters relevant to and related to Employee’s job with the CITY. Employee 
shall report to their regular place of employment or such other location reasonably located within the 
CITY as the CITY may direct from time to time to meet with the CITY representatives. If Employee is 
required to physically present themselves, they shall be compensated for time spent during such 
meetings as if they were actually performing work for the CITY (even though the purpose of such 
meetings shall be for purposes of communication and not to perform work). Employee shall physically 
report for face-to-face communications with the CITY upon 72 hours or more notification of the CITY’s 
request for a meeting. Except for vacation leave, the Employee shall provide the CITY with a current 
telephone number and mailing address at all times while on leave. Employee’s failure to communicate 
with the CITY as described above shall be grounds for discipline up to and including termination. Should 
the employee not respond within 24 hours, the Employer shall first notify the Employee’s Union or 
Association (if applicable) representative of Employee’s failure to respond.  Subsequent to CITY 
notification, the Employee’s Union or Association representative shall have a minimum of one-full 
regular work day in order to contact said Employee in order to open lines of communication.  In the 
event that the Union or Association representative is able to open communications between the 
Employee within the one work-day timeframe, the Employer shall take no disciplinary actions against 
the Employee regarding failure to communicate in reasonable and timely fashion. 
 
 

 

Page | 19                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
TITLE 16.  SICK LEAVE 

 

16.1    Accumulation 
Regular employees shall earn sick leave at a rate of eight (8) hours per calendar month of service or pro-
rata portion.  There shall be no limit to the accrual of unused sick leave. 
 
16.2    Allowance 
Sick leave shall be allowed for an absence due to: (a) a bona fide illness, off duty injury, or confinement 
for medical treatment; (b) personal medical or dental appointments which are impracticable to schedule 
outside of regular working hours; (c) the need to attend sick or injured immediate family members (e.g, 
dependent children, spousal partner, siblings, and parents) for up to seventy-two (72) hours per 
calendar year; (d) the need to be present during childbirth, surgery, critical illness or injury involving 
members of the immediate family for up to forty (40) hours per incident.  A Doctor's certificate, showing 
proof of illness may be required by the CITY only when abuse of sick leave is suspected. 
 
16.3    Workers' Compensation 
If an employee is injured on the job, and is receiving benefits under Workers' Compensation Act, he shall 
be allowed to use his unused leave benefits in an amount sufficient to provide wages equal to his salary 
as if he was normally employed.  This provision will cease when the employee's leave benefits are 
exhausted. 
 
TITLE 17.  HOLIDAYS 
 
17.1    Holiday Entitlement 
The following are guaranteed holidays for which all regular and probationary employees will be entitled 
to time off with pay: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.2    Saturday And Sunday Holiday 
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the 
Holiday.  When any of the above Holidays falls on a Saturday, the employee shall receive the preceding 
normal workday off with pay.  Other provisions for observing Holidays may be agreed to my mutual 
consent of the parties. 

New Year's Day  
Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
President's Day  
Memorial Day 
 
Independence Day 
Labor Day 
 
Thanksgiving Day 
Day after Thanksgiving 
Last Working Day before Christmas 
Christmas Day 
 
Last Working Day before New Year's Day 
Floating Holidays (2) 

January 1 
Third Monday in January 
Third Monday in February 
Last Monday in May 
July 4 
First Monday in September 
Designated Thursday in November 

December 25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page | 20                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
17.3    Work On Holidays 
In the event a Holiday, as listed above, shall fall during an employee's vacation period, he shall either 
receive an extra day of vacation with pay, or an extra day's pay, with the mutual consent of the 
employee and immediate supervisor. 

 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees may be scheduled to work on holidays, in which event such 
employee will, in addition to his holiday pay, be compensated at his appropriate overtime rate of pay for 
all hours worked on said Holiday. 

TITLE 18.  VACATIONS 
 
18.1   Vacation Allowance  
Each regular employee in the classified service shall be entitled to earn vacation as follows: 

 

 
 
 
 
 

Rate In Hours      
80 hours per year 
120 hours per year 
160 hours per year 
200 hours per year 

Years of Service             
0 through 5 years 
 
6 through 10 years   
11 through 20 years  
20+ years 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Vacation Accumulation – Earned vacation is credited monthly at rates that are based upon length of 
continuous employment.  Effective July 1, 2003 and thereafter, on a monthly basis, an employee who 
has exceeded the maximum vacation accrual (for his or her length of employment) will be ineligible to 
earn additional vacation credit. Monthly vacation accrual would resume after the accumulated balance 
is reduced below the maximum accrual. 

Max Accrual   
160 hours 
240 hours 
320 hours 
400 hours 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

Employees  may choose to receive the balance of their respective calender year vacation accrual as pay, 
(not to exceed eighty (80) hours) provided the employee submits such request in writing to the Finance 
Director on or before June 1st each fiscal year, and such request is approved by the City Administrator. 
The City Administrator shall have sole authority for approving, denying or paying a portion of the 
vacation balance. 
 
Unused Vacation 
Employees whose employment with the CITY is terminated for any reason shall, at the time of 
termination, receive pay for any unused vacation period previously earned 
 
18.2    Sick Leave 
The CITY shall not require an employee to take vacation in lieu of sick leave or leave of absence due to 
illness. 
 
TITLE 19  MISCELLANEOUS 
 
19.1    Anti-Abrogation 
The CITY shall not, by reason of the execution of this Agreement, abrogate or reduce the scope of any 
present plan, rule or any item which is subject to the Meet and Confer process of the Meyers-Milias-
Brown Act, which is not specifically covered by this Agreement. 

 

Page | 21                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 

Flexible Work Schedule 

 
 
19.2 
It is the policy of the CITY to encourage members of the UNION’s bargaining unit to pursue higher 
education.  The CITY will, where such modifications can be reasonably accommodated, authorize a 
flexible work schedule to allow attendance at classes.  The modified work schedule must be approved by 
the Department Head and the City Administrator. 

 

 Plant Operator Position   

19.3 
The CITY has established the classification of Plant Operator.  The position will be filled on an assignment 
basis rather than as a permanent reclassification.  The salary for this position will be the equivalent of 
the Senior Maintenance Worker with assignment pay plus the appropriate certificate pay.  The 
assignment will go into effect when the current individual receiving assignment pay has earned the 
three qualifying state certifications.   
 
19.4 
The CITY has established the classification of Senior Electrical Line Worker.  This position assumes 
supervisory responsibilities during the absence of the Electrical Superintendent.  This position is 
compensated at 5% above the Electrical Line Worker position. 

Senior Electrical Line Worker Position   

 
Training 

 

19.5 
The CITY encourages employees to improve their job skills by participating in courses directly related to 
work activities. A well trained workforce benefits both the employer and employee.  The employer 
benefits by having a qualified workforce.  Employees, in some cases, can qualify for additional 
compensation for earning specific job related certificates.  

This includes correspondence courses for water and wastewater certificates and classroom training 
conducted at off site locations, that may require overnight travel. This does not apply to training 
provided during the normal work day within the City of Gridley or within a distance that does not 
require an overnight stay. 

•  Authorization for training requires prior approval by CITY. 
•  For approved training, CITY will pay for registration, books, and materials.  
•  Employees are not compensated for study time. 
•  During training days, employee will receive straight regular time, not to exceed 8 hours per day. 

Training varies by course, which may be more or less than an 8 hour day. 
If training is offered on a non-work day, Department Head may authorize a temporary 
modification of work schedule before or after training so as to minimize impact on employee.  
(ie:  If, for example, training occurs on a Saturday, work schedule may be temporarily modified, 
by providing for a Monday off). 

• 

•  No compensation for travel time, unless during normal working hours. 
• 

If required, City will pay travel expenses (including lodging, mileage, transportation, and per 
diem according to CITY travel policy).  Payment for such travel is based on State of California 
Travel policy. 
 

19.6    Tuition Reimbursement 
All personnel covered by this agreement shall be eligible for educational cost reimbursement for job 
related college level courses taken outside of regular work hours.  Classes shall be subject to prior 
approval by the City Administrator.  The cost shall not exceed the equivalent cost of registration or 
tuition for one individual taking 1 class at Chico State University per semester (up to two semesters per 
 

Page | 22                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
year).  The individual shall be responsible for additional costs for books, etc.  Reimbursement is to be 
made following satisfactory completion of class with a grade of 2.0 or above on a 4 point scale. 

 

TITLE 20.  BENEFITS 

 

20.1  Benefits Upon Separation From Employment 
Upon separation from employment, unexpended balances in an employees Cafeteria Benefit Account, 
revert to the City, unless a transfer request is made to ICMA-RC prior to retirement and accepted by 
ICMA-RC for unexpended balances to be deposited to an active Retirement Health Savings Plan.  Any 
funds not requested for reimbursement (for costs incurred during the term of employment) within thirty 
days of separation are forfeited.   

Following is a listing of benefits and their availability upon retirement.  This listing is not exhaustive and 
is only provided as a guide relating to sick and vacation accruals (if any) and remaining balances in the 
cafeteria plan (if any).  Where known, other benefits that extend beyond the retirement date of the 
employee are also included (dental and health insurance). 
 
Vacation 
Balances available at the time of retirement fully accrue to theretiring employee.  The employee, at their 
option, may apply the value equivalent of the vacation accrual to the following: 

• 

“Cash out” the value of the vacation accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions.  This 
would apply to anywhere between 0% and 100% of available balances.  

•  Request the City, through an ICMA-RC form to contribute the value of the vacation accrual to 

the employee’s existing Retirement Health Savings Plan.  This would apply to anywhere between 
0% and 100% of the available balances. 

•  The employee may utilize the above options in any combination but only up to the total 

available accrual at the time of retirement for the employee. 

 
Sick Leave: 
Balances are available to the employee only upon the retirement into the CalPERS retirement system 
within 120 days of retirement from the City.  If the employee retires from the City to CalPERS retirement 
in this time, the following options are available to employees hired prior to July 1, 2014: 

•  Cash out” the value of the sick leave accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions.  This 

would apply to anywhere between 0% and 100% of available balances. 

•  Request the City, through an ICMA-RC form to contribute the value of the sick leave accrual to 

the employee’s existing Retirement Health Savings Plan.  This would apply to anywhere between 
0% and 100% of the available balances.  

•  Request the City, through a CalPERS form, to convert the sick leave accrue to service credits at 
the per hour equivalent described by CalPERS.  This would apply to anywhere between 0% and 
100% of the available balances. 

•  The employee may utilize 1, 2 & 3 above in any combination but only up to the total available 

accrual at the time of retirement for the employee. 

Employees hired after July 1, 2014, refer to Title 21, Section 21.1 for cashout of sick leave. 
 
Dental Insurance 
The employee, upon separation, may apply with the City for COBRA benefits for dental insurance.  The 
payment of insurance premiums would be the obligation of the employee upon retirement at the rate 
 

Page | 23                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
described in COBRA for a period of up to 18 months (the available time period is also described by 
COBRA). 
 
20.2  Medical   
City Medical  Plans 
The City shall provide the following medical plans: 

Anthem Blue Cross HMO – High Option (HMO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 
Anthem Blue Cross PPO – High Option (PPO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 

  
Employee Contributions 
Effective January 1, 2015 and thereafter, employees shall contribute the following dollar  amounts plus 
20% of any premium increase for their selected Blue Cross Plan: 

Employee: 
 
Employee + One: 
Employee + Family: 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

$64.57  
$104.14  
$137.88 

In no event shall employee contributions exceed the following monthly contribution: 

   $100.00 
    $150.00 
$200.00 

 

 

Employee: 
Employee + One: 
Employee + Family: 
 

 

Health Savings Accounts 
The CITY and the UNION agree to continue to meet and discuss retiree health care with the intent of 
establishing a medical plan savings plan/s such as Health Care Savings Accounts (HSA), Health Care 
Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA), Retirement Health Savings Accounts (RHS). 
 
In Lieu Health Plan Contributions 
 Any employee who submits a written request to waive health insurance coverage and the CITY 
contribution to the cafeteria plan may do so provided they have proof of other health insurance 
coverage.  Such employee shall receive fifty-percent (50%) of the 2014 monthly premium value of the 
plan tier for which the employee waives coverage, i.e. Employee Only ($728), Employee +1 ($1460), 
Family ($1,897), and this payment shall be allocated to employee's payroll or to one of the CITY's tax 
deferred IRS plans provided herein. An employee may opt out of health coverage only during the regular 
open enrollment period. 

 

IRS 125 Plan/105 Health Savings Accounts  

CITY and UNION agree to convert the current "cafeteria benefit plan", PERS health insurance premium 
plan, and the current Health Savings Plan to be consistent with applicable Internal Revenue Services' 
(IRS) regulations.  CITY and UNION agree to maintain the same level of contributions for each employee 
as such contributions exist for such employee at the time of conversion to the new plan. Such 
contributions may be designated by the employee to be paid as salary, or to the extent provided by 
applicable IRS regulations, directed to CITY’s 457 ICMA-RC Plan beginning with the first pay period in 
February 2010. Such designation may not be made more than once each year during the month of 
December for implementation during the first pay period in January of the following year.  

 

Page | 24                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
To the extent provided by the applicable IRS regulations, an employee shall have the option to designate 
salary to the IRS Section 125 Plan during open enrollment  through a third party vendor contracted by 
the City. 
  
CITY and UNION agree that it is their intent not to increase CITY costs or reduce the current CITY 
contributions made on behalf of each employee on the date of conversion. 
 
20.3      Dental Plan 
The CITY agrees to provide and maintain a Group Dental Insurance Program at a mutually agreed upon 
level of benefits and the CITY shall pay 100% of the costs for such coverage for the term of this 
agreement.  The CITY shall provide the above coverage for the employee and his/her dependents. 
 
20.4  
The CITY shall provide and maintain group life insurance with accidental death and dismemberment 
benefits.  The basic life insurance amount is $50,000 for all employees and $5,000 for dependents.  The 
premium shall be paid for by the CITY.  In addition, CITY will provide a Standard Insurance Company 
short-term and long-term disability plan for the term of this Agreement, the  full cost of which shall be 
borne by the CITY. 
 
20.5 
The CITY has established a computer purchase loan program for its employees.  The CITY encourages the 
use of computers by employees, where such use will result in a more efficient use of time and an 
improved work product.  CITY personnel will have the opportuntity to acquire desktop and laptop 
computers and accessories that will enhance their personal and professional skills. Participation in the 
loan program is voluntary and subject to the following conditions: 

 Life And Disability Insurance 

Computer Loan Fund 

•  Eligilble employees may receive a loan of up to $2,000 (two thousand dollars) for the purchase 

of a computer (desktop or laptop), printer, digital camera, software and other related 
equipment as provided under the minimum standards as defined under CITY policy.  The specific 
items to be purchased must be approved in advance by the City Administrator (or his 
designee).The equipment must meet minimum standards established by the CITY:  Minimum 
standards are subject to revision by the CITY as necessary to maintain current technology.  
Revision to the standards will be via changes to CITY policy approved by City Council. 

•  The term of the loan shall be 24 months and interest free.  The loan repayment schedule shall 

start with the payroll period following the month in which the CITY paid for the equipment. 

•  The Finance Department will deduct payments from the employee’s paycheck in equal 

installments.  The employee may may payments in excess of the minimum necessary to satisfy 
the loan in 24 months.  

•  The loan agreement, included as an exhibit in the original 1998 Resolution approving the loan 

program must be signed. The loan agreement  is included in the CITY policy and may be changed 
immaterially from time to time based on the circumstances of a particular loan. 

•  The Security Agreement,  included as an exhibit in the original 1998 Resolution approving the 

loan program must be signed. The Security Agreement  is included in the CITY policy and may be 
changed immaterially from time to time based on the circumstances of a particular loan to 
adequately identify the security of the loan.  

Physical Fitness 

 
20.6 
The City will reimburse UNION members up to $25 per month for gym membership. Should a member 
pay for more than one month at a time (for example, six months in advance) the City will only reimburse 
 

Page | 25                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
that member at a rate of $25 per month. The City Administrator will have the final approval or 
disapproval authority of any facility or business selected by the member to ensure the intent of this 
section is met. 
 
20.7 
The City has established a vision plan for members; however members who desire to participate will 
bear 100% of their costs. 

Vision Plan 

 

TITLE 21.  RETIREMENT 
 
21.1    Sick Leave Pay-Off 
Sick leave which has been accumulated during an employee's tenure with the CITY, shall be reimbursed 
to the employee at the current rate including Title 11 certificate pay , at the time of retirement, upon his 
retirement for service under P.E.R.S.   For employees hired after July 1, 2014, sick leave which has been 
accumulated during an employee’s tenure with the CITY shall be reimbursed fifty percent (50%) to the 
employee at the current rate including Title 11 certificate pay, at the time of retirement, upon his 
retirement for service under P.E.R.S. 
 
21.2    Public Employees Retirement System (P.E.R.S.) 
Retirement benefits shall be provided to eligible employees in accordance with the applicable contract 
between the City and the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). 
 
The use of terms “Classic Member” and “New Member” shall be as defined by CalPERS and the Public 
Employee Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA).   
 
A “Classic Member” is defined as any of the following: 

•  A new hire that was brought into CalPERS membership for the first time before January 1, 

2013. 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to 
January 1, 2013, and is eligible for reciprocity. 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 
rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of less than six months. 

 
A “New (PEPRA) Member” is defined in Government Code section 7522.04(f) as any of the following: 
•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who has no prior membership in a qualifying public retirement system; or 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to 
January 1, 2013, and is not eligible for reciprocity; or 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 

rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of greater than six months. 

 
Classic Member - The 2% at 55 PERS formula shall be provided for “Classic Member” employees.  The 
employees shall pay 100% of the employee contribution, 7%. 

 

Page | 26                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 

 
 
New (PEPRA) Member - 2% at 62 retirement formula shall be provided for all New (PEPRA) Member 
employees.  The employee shall pay 50% of the PERS “normal costs” rounded to the nearest quarter 
of 1 percent.  (PERS “normal cost” is the employer plus employee share) 
 
All applicable contributions identified above shall be made through payroll deduction on a pre-tax 
basis. 
 
The City has implemented the retirement benefit known as “Final Year Compensation”, as described in 
Section 20042 of the Government Code.  Employees hired on or after July 1, 2010 shall not be eligible 
for “Final Year Compensation”, such employees shall  have applied the PERS formula of  36 highest paid 
consecutive months  by amendment to the CalPERS Agreement .  The following PERSable certifications 
shall be reported as PERSable compensation: 

 

•  Electric:  Bilingual Pay/Rubber Glove Pay/Longevity Pay/Class B CDL Customer   Serv. 

•  Public Works:  Bilingual Pay/Class B CDL/Water Dist. I and II Pay/ Wastewater Treatment 

Tech./Longevity Pay 

Pay/Longevity Pay 

•  Administrative:  Bilingual Pay/Class B CDL/Longevity Pay 

ICMA Retirement Health Savings Plan 

 
21.3  Deferred Compensation Program 
The CITY has established for all employees voluntary participation in qualified 457 Deferred 
Compensation programs.  Eligible employee(s) who decline medical coverage, shall be entitled, in lieu of 
CITY paid medical coverage, amounts as specified in Section 20.2 deposited by the CITY into their 
Cafateria Plan account.   
 
21.4 
The CITY agrees to implement the ICMA Retirement Health Savings Plan. 
 
TITLE 22.  TERM OF AGREEMENT 
 
22.1    Term 
This agreement shall take effect on July 1, 2019, and shall continue in full force and effect through June 
30, 2022, and thereafter from year to year, unless written notice of intent to modify shall be given by 
either party to the other sixty (60) days prior to the end of the current year. 
 

 

Page | 27                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

 
22.2    Changes To MOU 
This Memorandum of Understanding shall not be amended or supplemented except by agreement of 
the parties hereto, reduced to writing and duly signed by each.  
 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN CITY OF GRIDLEY AND THE INTERNATIONAL 
BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 1245. 

 

_________________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Administrator 

                                             ____     
Daryl Dye, Utilities Director 

 
 

 
 

1. 
 

CITY OF GRIDLEY 

                                               ____   
Tom Dalzell, Business Manager   

                                              ____    
Al Fortier, Asst. Business Manager 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Memorandum of 
Understanding this 7th day of October, 2019. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF 
ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 1245 
 
 
1. 
 
 
 
2. 
 
 
 
3. 
 
 
 
  NEGOTIATING COMMITTEE MEMBERS  
 
 
1. 
 
                             
 
2. 

_________________________ 
Dominic McCurtain, Business Representative 

                                               ____     
Danny Howard 

2.     
 

 

 

                                    ___             
Sandra Ramos 
 
      
                                          ___      
Scott Taylor 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

   

  

 
 
3. 
 

 

Page | 28                                                    

 

IBEW 
 

Exhibit A 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
Salary Schedules 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates -Electric Dept 
(Electric Line Series includes: Elect Sup., Senior Elect Line Worker, Line Worker, and Apprentice) 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2019 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3  Step 4  Step 5  Step 6  Step 7 

Electrical Supervísor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electrical Line Worker 
Apprentice line Worker 
Utility Technician 
Electrical Ground support Worker 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

5,513 

5,972 

- 
- 
- 
6,432 

- 
- 
- 

6,891 

4,032 

4,314 

4,616 

4,939 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

7,810 

7,350 
4,923 
5,285  5,655 

Incentives and other additional pay 
Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate) 

Included in the base pay for Electric Supervísor, Senior Electric Line Worker, Electric lïne 

Top 
Step 
10,131 
9,648 
9,188 

- 
- 
- 

8,269 

- 

6,050 

Worker &Apprentice line Worker +$ 50 
Utility Technician 

Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

Electric Supervisor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electric Line Worker 
Apprentice Line Worker 
Utility Technician 

- 
- 
- 
277 
239 

Rubber Glove Certificate (Electric line Series only) 

Electric Supervisor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electric line Worker 
Apprentice Line Worker 

Longevity 

1% at 10 vears of service 

Electric Supervisor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electric Line Worker 
Apprentice Line Worker 
Utílity Technician 

2% at 15 vears of service 

Electric Supervisor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electric Line Worker 
Apprentice Line Worker 
Utílity Technician 

3% at 20 vears of service 

- 
- 
- 
438 

- 
- 
- 
55 
- 

- 
- 
- 
109 
- 

- 
- 
- 
295 
248 

- 
- 
- 
474 

- 
- 
- 
59 
- 

- 
- 
- 
119 
- 

330 

- 
- 
- 

- 

- 
- 
- 

- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

314 
258 

333 
269 

352 
280 

371 

- 

390 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

511 

547 

584 

620 

- 
- 
- 
656 

- 
- 
- 
64 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 
68 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 
73 
49 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 
78 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 
82 
- 

- 
- 
- 

128 
- 

137 
- 

146 
98 

155 

164 

- 

- 
- 
- 

- 

- 
- 
- 

233 

- 

246 

- 

- 

466 
447 
428 
- 
- 

810 
772 
735 
- 

101 
96 
92 
- 
- 

203 
193 
184 
- 
- 

304 
289 
276 
- 
- 

Electric Supervísor 
Senior Electric Line Worker 
Electric Line Worker 
Apprentice Line Worker 
UtilityTechnician 
*Schedules for 7-1-2020 and 7-1-2021 TBD following annual Elec Line Salary Survey 

- 
- 
- 
178 
- 

- 
- 
- 
164 
- 

191 
- 

219 
148 

205 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

- 
- 
- 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates - Admin Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2019 

Accountantl 
Business Service Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk 1 
Transit Operator 

Incentives and other additional aay 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Ratej 

Accountant 1 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate} 

Accountant 1 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Various certificates as identified in the resolution 
Longevity 

1% at 10 vears of service 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

2% at 15 vears of service 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

3%u at 20 vears of service 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator  

Step 1 
4,501 
4,411 
3,896 
3,544 
3,541 
3,374 
2,886 
3,845 

Step 2 
4,726 
4,632 
4,091 
3,721 
3,718 
3,542 
3,030 
4,037 

Step 3 
4,962 
4,864 
4,296 
3,907 
3,905 
3,719 
3,182 
4,239 

Step 4 

5,211 
5,107 
4,511 
4,102 
4,100 
3,905 
3,341 
4,451 

45 
44 

39 

35 

35 

34 

29 

38 

90 

88 

78 

71 

0 

71 

58 

77 

135 
132 

117 

106 

106 

101 

87 
115 

47 

46 

41 

37 

37 

35 

30 

40 

95 

93 

82 

74 

72 

74 

61 

81 

142 

139 

123 

112 

112 

106 

91 
121 

50 

49 

43 

39 

39 

37 

32 

42 

99 
97 

86 

78 

76 

78 

64 

85 

149 
146 

129 

117 

117 

~112 

95 
127 

52 
51 

45 

41 

41 

39 

33 

45 

104 
102 

90 

82 

80 

82 

67 

89 

156 

153 

135 

123 

123 

117 

100 
134 

Top 
Step 
5,471 
5,362 
4,737 
4,307 
4,305 
4,100 
3,508 
4,674 

271 
271 

271 

251 
253 
241 

214 
268 

271 
271 

271 
251 

125 
241 

214 
268 

55 
54 

47 

43 

43 

41 

35 

47 

109 
107 

95 

86 

84 

86 

70 

93 

164 

161 

142 

129 

129 

123 

105 
140 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates - Admin Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2020 

Accountant 1 
Business Service Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 
Incentives and other additional oav 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + $ 50 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + $ 50 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Various certificates as identified in the resolution 
Longevity 

1% at 10 years of service 

Accountant 1 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 
2% at 15 nears of service 
Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

3% at 20 years of service 

Accountanti 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator  

Step 1 
4,636 
4,544 
4,013 
3,650 
3,647 
3,475 
2,972 
3,960 

Step 2 
4,868 
4,771 
4,214 
3,833 
3,830 
3,649 
3,121 
4,158 

Step 3 

5,111 
5,010 
4,425 
4,025 
4,022 
3,831 
3,277 
4,366 

Step 4 
5,367 
5,260 
4,646 
4,226 
4,223 
4,023 
3,441 
4,584 

Step 
5,635 
5,523 
4,878 
4,437 
4,434 
4,224 
3,613 
4,813 

271 
271 
271 
251 
253 
241 
214 
268 

271 
271 
271 
251 
125 
241 
214 
268 

56 
55 
49 
44 
44 
42 
36 
48 

113 
110 
98 
89 
89 
84 
72 
96 

169 
166 
146 
133 
133 
127 
108 
144 

46 
45 
40 
37 
36 
35 
30 
40 

93 
91 
80 
73 
73 
69 
59 
79 

139 
136 
120 
110 
109 
104 
89 
119 

49 
48 
42 
38 
38 
36 
31 
42 

97 
95 
84 
77 
77 
73 
62 
83 

146 
143 
126 
115 
115 
109 
94 
125 

51 
50 
44 
40 
40 
38 
33 
44 

102 
100 
89 
81 
80 
77 
66 
87 

153 
150 
133 
121 
121 
115 
98 
131 

54 
53 
46 
42 
42 
40 
34 
46 

107 
105 
93 
85 
84 
80 
69 
92 

161 
158 
139 
127 
127 
121 
103 
138 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates - Admin Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2021 

Accountantl 
Business Service Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 
Incentives and other additional pav 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

5% with qualifications + S 50 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Admínistrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Class B Drivers License (flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + S 50 

Accountant 1 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

Various certificates as identified in the resolution 
Longevity 

1% at 10 vears of service 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administratiue Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

2% at 15 vears of service 

Accountantl 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator 

3% at 20 vears of service 

Accountant 1 
Business Services Supervisor 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Transit Operator  

Step 1 
4,729 
4,544 
4,093 
3,723 
3,757 
3,544 
3,032 
4,039 

Step 2 
4,965 
4,771 
4,298 
3,909 
3,945 
3,722 
3,183 
4,241 

Step 3 
5,214 
5,010 
4,513 
4,104 
4,143 
3,908 
3,342 
4,453 

Step 4 
5,474 
5,260 
4,739 
4,309 
4,350 
4,103 
3,509 
4,676 

Step 
5,748 
5,523 
4,976 
4,524 
4,567 
4,308 
3,684 
4,910 

271 
Z71 
271 
251 
256 
241 
214 
268 

271 
271 
271 
251 
256 
241 
Z14 
268 

57 
55 
50 
45 
50 
43 
37 
49 

115 
110 
100 
90 
99 
86 
74 
98 

172 
166 
149 
136 
149 
129 
111 
147 

47 
45 
41 
37 
41 
35 
30 
40 

95 
91 
82 
74 
81 
71 
61 
81 

50 
48 
43 
39 
43 
37 
32 
42 

99 
95 
86 
78 
86 
74 
64 
85 

142. 
136 
123 
112 
122 
106 
91 
121 

149 
143 
129 
117 
128 
112 
95 
127 

52 
50 
45 
41 
45 
39 
33 
45 

104 
100 
90 
82 
90 
78 
67 
89 

156 
150 
135 
123 
135 
117 
100 
134 

55 
53 
47 
43 
47 
41 
35 
47 

109 
105 
95 
86 
94 
82 
70 
94 

164 
158 
142 
129 
141 
123 
105 
140 

Step 3 

5,142 
4,239 
3,687 
3,319. 

Step 4 
5,399 
4,451 
3,871 
3,485 

Step 

5,669 
4,674 
4,065 
3,659 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates -Public Works Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2019 

Step 1 
4,664 
3,845 
3,343 
3,010 

Step 2 
4,897 
4,037 
3,511 
3,161 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
Incentives and other additional pay 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

59'o with qualifications + $SO 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker 11 
Maintenance Worker I 

Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + $ SO 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Sewer and Water Certificates 

Flat Rated Distribution Certificate with $SO 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker) 

Flat Rated for Level II Water Treatment Certificate with $100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Level II Wastewater Treatment Certificate plus $100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maíntenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Water Backflow Prevention Certification plus $50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
Senior Maintenance Worker (WWTP Plant) 

Longevity 

1% at 10 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
2% at 15 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker 11 
Maintenance Worker I 
3% at 20 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

47 
38 
33 
30 

93 
77 
67 
60 

140 
115 
100 
90 

49 
40 
35 
32 

98 
81 
70 
63 

147 
121 
105 
95 

51 
42 
37 
33 

103 
85 
74 
66 

154 
127 
111 
100 

54 
45 
39 
35 

108 
89 
77 
70 

162 
134 
116 
105 

315 
268 
240 
221 

315 
268 
240 
221 

311 
266 
238 
220 

622 
531 
476 
440 

622 
531 
476 
440 

182 
160 
146 
137 
234 

57 
47 
41 
37 

113 
93 
81 
73 

170 
140 
122 
110 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates -Public Works Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2020 

Step 1 
4,804 
3,960 
3,444 
3,100 

Step 2 
5,044 
4,158 
3,616 
3,255 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 

5,296 
4,366 
3,797 
3,418 

5,561 
4,584 
3,987 
3,589 

5,839 
4,813 
4,186 
3,768 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
Incentives and other additional pan 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

5~° with qualifications + S50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate} 

5%with qualifications + $ 50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Sewer and Water Certificates 

Flat Rated for D2 Distribution Certificate with $50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Level II Water Treatment Certificate with $100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Level II Wastewater Treatment Certificate plus_$100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Seníor Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Water Backflow Prevention Certification plus $ 50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
Senior Maintenance Worker (WWTP Plant) 

Longevity 

1% at 10 nears of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
2% at 15 nears of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 
3% at 20 nears of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker ! 

48 
40 
34 
31 

96 
79 
69 
62 

144 
119 
103 
93 

50 
42 
36 
33 

101 
83 
72 
65 

151 
125 
108 
98 

53 
44 
38 
34 

106 
87 
76 
68 

159 
131 
114 
103 

56 
46 
40 
36 

111 
92 
80 
72 

167 
138 
120 
108 

315 
268 
240 
221 

315 
268 
240 
221 

311 
266 
238 
220 

622 
531 
476 
440 

622 
531 
476 
440 

182 
160 
146 
137 
241 

58 
48 
42 
38 

117 
96 
84 
75 

175 
144 
126 
113 

City of Gridley Schedule of Wage Rates -Public Works Series 
Bargaining Group: IBEW 
Effective Date 7-1-2021 

Step 1 
4,900 
4,.039 
3,513 
3,162 

Step 2 
5,145 
4,241 
3,688 
3,321 

Step 3 

5,402 
4,453 
3,872 
3,487 

Step 4 
5,672 
4,676 
4,066 
3,661 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker 1 
Incentives and other additional pay 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + $50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Class B Drivers License (Flat Rate) 

5%with qualifications + $ 50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Sewer and Water Certificates 

Flat Rated for D2 Distribution Certificate with $50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Level II Water Treatment Certificate with $100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker I 

Flat Rated for Level II Wastewater Treatment Certificate plus $100 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker) 

Flat Rated for Water Backflow Prevention Certification plus $50 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Seníor Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maíntenance Worker 1 
Senior Maíntenance Worker (WWTP Plant) 

Longevity 

1%u at 10 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker) 
2% at 15 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker) 
3% at 20 years of service 

Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Maintenance Worker II 
Maintenance Worker) 

49 
40 
35 
32 

98 
81 
70 
63 

147 
121 
105 
95 

51 
42 
37 
33 

103 
85 
74 
66 

154 
127 
111 
100 

54 
45 
39 
35 

108 
89 
77 
70 

162 
134 
116 
105 

57 
47 
41 
37 

113 
94 
81 
73 

170 
140 
122 
110 

Top 
Step 

5,956 
4,910 
4,269 
3,844 

315 
268 
240 
221 

315 
268 
240 
221 

311 
266 
238 
220 

622 
531 
476 
440 

622 
531 
476 
440 

182 
160 
146 
137 
246 

60 
49 
43 
38 

119 
98 
85 
77 

179 
147 
128 
115 

Exhibit B 
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 
Job Descriptions 
 
Accountant I 
Accounting / Senior Accounting Technician 
Administrative Secretary 
Administrative Services Clerk I/II 
Apprentice Lineworker 
Business Services Supervisor 
Electric Lineworker 
Electric Supervisor 
Maintenance Worker I/II 
Public Works Maintenance Supervisor 
Senior Maintenance Worker 
Transit Vehicle Operator 
Utility Technician 

ACCOUNTANT I 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general direction of the Finance Director or designee performs professional accounting work 
including the examination, maintenance, verification, analysis and reconciliation of financial records; 
assists in developing and installing accounting systems; prepares accounting, auditing and budget 
reports; assists in daily clerical accounting activities; and prepares county, state and federal reports; to 
process City’s payroll, maintain related benefits records, and prepare necessary reports; to participate in 
the maintenance of the general ledger and subsidiary ledgers; and to function as a positive and 
cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
Employees in this classification are fully competent and knowledgeable in all areas of technical 
accounting, including accounts receivable, payroll, benefits and general ledger.  Employees in this 
classification must possess and in-depth knowledge of these technical accounting functions in order to 
act as a resource and/or lead to others in the performance of responsible technical/clerical accounting 
assignments.  This job class also requires excellent organizational skills, communication skills and a high 
level of attention to detail. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Finance Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. Employees in this classification 
may provide technical and/or functional supervision over assigned staff, temporary workers and/or 
volunteers. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Provides responsible professional and technical assistance in the administration and 

implementation of the City’s financial, auditing, and accounting programs. 

•  Participates in operating an automated office and computerized financial and information 

system, identify, develop and implement new automated applications as needed to facilitate 
effectiveness and efficiency. 

•  Participates in and assumes responsibility for various departmental programs including financial 

statements, general ledger, monthly statements, payroll, and assessment districts accounting; 
conducts and prepares special studies and reports. 

•  Receives, reviews, audits and processes payroll for City employees; full maintenance of payroll 

database/system including all data for new employees and any modification/updates; codes and 
posts payroll to labor distribution master. 

•  Oversees, monitors, and participates in preparing the City’s federal and state tax payroll  reports 

on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. 
Loan management from housing assistance program: calculates principal and interest, posts to 
subsidiary ledger and clients’ payment record books. 

•  Prepares journal entries and periodic reconciliation of general ledger, revenue, expenditure, or 

• 

subsidiary accounts and bank statements. 

•  Prepares a variety of financial and statistical reports including year-end reporting, budgetary and 

management analysis. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Assists in the coordination of the annual audits and assumes a lead role as needed. 
•  Acts as a resource to City staff, management and other agencies/organizations regarding 

• 

accounting and processes, procedures and guidelines. 
Interprets, explains and applies general and governmental accounting/auditing principles and 
procedures, laws and regulations affecting the financial operations of municipal government. 

•  Demonstrates a high level of integrity as well as being highly organized and detail oriented. 
•  Trains clerical staff, temporary workers and/or volunteers in the City’s Finance Department on 

the operations, procedures and practices within the department as assigned. 

•  Builds and maintains respectful, positive working relationships with staff, supervisors, outside 
agencies and the public using principles of good customer service; provides effective conflict 
resolution, as needed.   

•  Models appropriate professional management conduct; maintains appropriate confidentiality of 
sensitive information; complies with and supports City policies and procedures, labor laws, and 
MOU provisions. 

•  Responsible for carrying out the mission of the City and the department and adherence to the 

City’s and department’s organization values. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Generally accepted accounting principles and theories, principles and practices of budgeting and 

finance. 

•  Current information technology principles and applications for fiscal and financial systems. 
•  Federal, State and local laws and regulations relating to fiscal management. 
•  Principles of organization and management. 
•  Modern methods of records management. 
•  Safe work practices and related regulations. 
•  Principles of public speaking, conflict resolution and excellent customer service. 
•  City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 

 
Ability to: 

• 

IBEW 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
•  Understand, interpret and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in and 

 

independent manner. 

•  Prepare accounting worksheets, journal entries, adjustments and related documentation 

according to established procedures and guidelines. 

•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks for self and others in an effective and timely manner. 
•  Establish and maintain a variety of highly organized recordkeeping/filing systems and/or 

databases including highly sensitive and confidential documentation and generate requested 
reports. 
Identify problems/issues, collect relevant data, analyze options according to established  criteria, 
and recommend appropriate course of action within prescribed alternatives. 

• 

•  Perform professional, technical financial management analysis including the preparation of 

complex analytical reports and documents. 
Interact with the public effectively and courteously. 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Identify with management and City goals and objectives and understand and support City 
priorities and needs. 

•  Prepare reports and efficiently maintain accurate records. 
•  Demonstrate continuing effectiveness in maintaining the knowledge and skills required of this 

position. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these abilities and knowledge would be: 
 
Training 

•  Equivalent to four years of college with significant course work in the areas of accounting, 

financial management, public administration, business administration, or related fields including 
significant course work in the area of accounting and financial management.  

•  Associate degrees considered when combined with sufficient applicable experience. 

 
Experience 

• 

 At least one (1) year of recent full-time responsible accounting or fiscal experience. 
Governmental and/or fund accounting experience, CPA or CPFO is highly desirable. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required; verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall are necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN 
SENIOR ACCOUNTING TECHNICIAN 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To perform and/or monitor the performance of a variety of responsible clerical/technical accounting 
and fiscal record management functions utilizing manual and computerized systems and processes; to 
process City’s payroll, maintain related benefits records, process accounts payable invoices and 
payment, and prepare necessary reports; to participate in the maintenance of the general ledger and 
subsidiary ledgers; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
Accounting Technician 
This classification functions at the full journey level of job performance.  Employees in this classification 
perform the full range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Incumbents in this classification 
receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are fully 
competent and knowledgeable in at least two (2) of the following areas:  accounts payable, accounts 
receivable, payroll, benefits and general ledger bookkeeping.  Employees in this job class may also be 
cross trained in other clerical and accounting functions in order to provide competent back-up and 
additional administrative/operational support as necessary. 
 
Senior Accounting Technician 
This classification functions at the advanced journey level of job performance.  Employees in this 
classification perform the more complex of a full range of duties in an independent manner.  Employees 
in this classification are fully competent and knowledgeable in all areas of accounts payable, accounts 
receivable, payroll, benefits and general ledger bookkeeping.  Employees in this classification must 
possess and in-depth knowledge of these technical accounting functions in order to act as a resource 
and/or lead to others in the performance of responsible technical/clerical accounting assignments.  This 
job class also requires excellent organizational skills, communication skills and a high level of attention 
to detail. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
 
Accounting Technician 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Finance Director or his/her 
designee within a framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Finance Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
Employees in this classification may provide technical and/or functional supervision over assigned staff, 
temporary workers and/or volunteers. 
 
 
 
IBEW 

 

Adopted: 10/7/2019 

 

EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in the City’s processing of accounts payable; preparing 

purchase orders; verifying invoices against receiving documents for accuracy; coding accounts 
payable for departmental responsibility. 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in auditing incoming invoices and supporting 

documentation to verify accuracy and adherence to legal mandates and operational guidelines; 
prepares and issues checks; processes manual check requests. 

•  Receives, reviews, audits and processes payroll documents for City employees; inputs all data 

into payroll database/system including all data for new employees and any 
modification/updates; codes and posts payroll to labor distribution master; calculates and 
processes special pay to include overtime, stand-by, compensation time and holiday. 

•  Oversees monitors and participates in preparing the City’s federal and state tax payroll reports 

on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. 

•  Receives and records loan payments from housing assistance clients: calculates principal and 

interest, posts to subsidiary ledger and client’s payment record books. 

•  Reconciles bank account for City’s payroll; transfers funds between accounts as appropriate; 

maintains control of designated funds and prepares regular and periodic reports. 

•  Reviews, verifies, balances, posts, adjusts and maintains various accounting and fiscal records 
and documents according to established policies and guidelines in support of the City’s general 
and subsidiary ledgers. 

•  Assembles, tabulates, calculates, verifies and reconciles a variety of incoming accounting/fiscal 
data and posts to the general ledger according to established procedures and guidelines; enters 
data into computerized and/or manual recordkeeping systems and/or worksheets. 

•  Acts as a resource to City staff, management and other agencies/organizations regarding 

accounting and bookkeeping processes, procedures and guidelines. 

•  Trains clerical staff, temporary workers and/or volunteers in the City’s Finance Department on 

the operations, procedures and practices within the department as assigned.   

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Accounting Technician 
Knowledge of: 

and reporting systems. 

•  Standard and accepted procedures, policies and guidelines of payroll processing, recordkeeping 

•  Standard and accepted accounts payable, accounts receivable, collections and general 

bookkeeping systems and practices.  

•  Standard and accepted office practices, procedures and techniques. 
•  Standard and accepted English usage in spelling, grammar and punctuation. 
•  Designated computer software and appropriate applications. 

Learn and understand pertinent laws, codes, regulations and guidelines governing fiscal 
recordkeeping and reporting for municipalities. 
Learn and understand the City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 

 

Adopted: 10/7/2019 

 
Ability to: 

• 

• 

IBEW 

 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an independent 

•  Operate designated software programs including word processing, spreadsheets and databases 

manner. 

effectively. 

•  Operate a variety of office machines and equipment including computer terminal, peripheral 

equipment, fax machine, copier and calculator. 

•  Audit, verify and transfer large quantities of numbers and related data accurately and   at a 

speed sufficient for successful job performance. 

•  Communicate effectively and positively in both oral and written forms.  
•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the   performance of 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

 
Senior Accounting Technician 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
Knowledge of: 

•  Pertinent laws, codes, regulations and guidelines governing fiscal recordkeeping and reporting 

for municipalities. 

•  City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand, interpret and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in and 

independent manner. 

•  Prepare accounting worksheets, journal entries, adjustments and related documentation 

according to established procedures and guidelines. 

•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks for self and others in an effective and timely manner. 
•  Establish and maintain a variety of recordkeeping/filing systems and/or databases including 

highly sensitive and confidential documentation and generate requested reports. 
Identify problems/issues, collect relevant data, analyze options according to established  criteria, 
and recommend appropriate course of action within prescribed alternatives. 

• 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these abilities and knowledge would be: 
 
Accounting Technician 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance.  Supplemental coursework in accounting or finance 
highly desirable. 

 

Adopted: 10/7/2019 

 

IBEW 

 

Experience 

 
Senior Accounting Technician 
Training 

 
Experience 

•  At least two (2) years of responsible experience performing clerical accounting/bookkeeping 

support, preferably with a municipality or similar public agency. 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade supplemented with coursework in accounting, 

fiscal records management or a closely related field. 

•  At least three (3) years of progressively responsible work equivalent to the duties performed by 

the Accounting Technician with City of Gridley. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required; verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall are necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

Adopted: 10/7/2019 

 
 

IBEW 

 

ADMINISTRATIVE SECRETARY 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To perform the more complex and responsible administrative support functions for assigned 
departments; to perform a high level of skilled secretarial duties in support of City’s administrative and 
operational programs/departments; to issue and process various permits and fees; and to function as a 
positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class functions at the advanced journey level of job performance.  Employees in this 
classification, under general direction, perform a variety of clerical, administrative, analytical, and 
customer service functions from the routine to complex for multiple departments/managers.  
Employees in this classification serve as the primary resource person regarding assigned 
departments’/programs’ administrative and operational processes and procedures.  Employees in this 
classification perform assigned duties in a highly independent manner according to overall directives 
and within the context of established guidelines.  Positions assigned to this job class may be responsible 
for significant administrative/operational processes requiring specialized knowledge and skills in 
addition to excellent organizational and communication skills, and attention to detail. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision form a director or his/her designee within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
Employees in this classification may exercise technical and functional supervision over other clerical 
staff, temporary workers and/or volunteers. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include but are not limited to the following: 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in various clerical support for assigned and  multiple City 

work units; maintains and develops multiple filing systems; oversees and participates in 
necessary word processing, billing, calculating, record keeping, photocopying, proof-reading and 
distribution for the City. 

•  Performs responsible and skilled secretarial duties in support of City management; performing 

and coordinating a variety of administrative details not requiring the attention of assigned 
management. 

•  Acts as a primary resource person regarding a variety of City’s administrative and operational 

processes and procedures; responds to inquiries and requests from other City staff, public 
agencies and community organizations, businesses, and the general public; escalates or refers 
only the most complex and sensitive matters. 

•  Organizes, coordinates and schedules numerous meetings, committees, and other special 

projects to include setting the schedule, reserving facilities, contacting participants ordering and 
assembling materials and supplies and monitoring all related follow-up activities.   

•  Assists assigned director with various phases of the budget preparation and production process; 

producing related reports and information upon request.  

•  Coordinates travel arrangements; schedules and books air and land transport in  coordination 

with event times, prepares and tracks requisition for expenses. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Assembles, prepares and distributes meeting agendas; prepares and posts Notices of Public 

Hearings; reviews agendas for follow-up items. 

•  Performs receptionist duties; answers the telephone and initiates outgoing calls; greets  visitors 
and responds to questions, referring to appropriate department or individual as  necessary and 
takes messages. 

•  Provides customer service at the counter in collection of utility payments, issuing of permits for 

building, issuing licensing and processing licensing fees; provides general and specific 
information to the public regarding City services, programs and operations; provides 
interpretation of City codes; provides and explains zoning and parcel information to customers. 
•  Prepares building permit applications; finalizes routine applications; schedules inspections; files 

appropriate reports; and responds to customers’ requests for information. 

•  Maintains complex records in compliance with federal, state and local regulations. 
•  Word processes a variety of materials and documents including memoranda, agendas, meeting 

minutes, reports, correspondence, logs, and forms from rough draft and/or written/verbal 
instructions and which require familiarity with pertinent governing regulations, policies, 
ordinances, and operational procedures. 

•  Researches a variety of information; gathering, compiling, and inputting data into computerized 
spreadsheets and/or databases; verifies data prior to inputting and proofreading output reports. 
•  Prepares a variety of reports periodically and as needed for multiple City functions and services; 
compiles data from appropriate databases, statistics, and other recordkeeping; analyzes data for 
reports. 

•  Assists all departments and staff as needed in a positive and proactive manner. 
•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted office practices, procedures and techniques. 
•  Standard and accepted English usage, spelling, grammar and punctuation. 
•  Standard and accepted receptionist techniques and telephone etiquette. 
•  Designated computer software and its applications. 
•  Basic principles and practices of developing and maintaining municipal records. 
•  Administrative and operational procedures and practices of City’s departments and services. 
•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of data collection and report preparation. 
•  City’s organization, policies and administrative/operational processes. 

•  Understand, interpret, and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

•  Word process accurately and at a speed sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Utilize designated word processing, spreadsheet, database and specialized software programs 

independent manner. 

accurately. 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and   division 

with speed and accuracy. 
Identify problems/issues, collect relevant data, analyze options according to established  criteria, 
and recommend appropriate course of action within prescribed alternatives. 

 
Ability to: 

• 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Operate a variety of office machines and equipment including computer terminal, peripheral 

equipment, fax machine, copier and calculator. 

•  Take and transcribe notes, minutes and/or dictation at a speed and manner sufficient for 

successful job performance. 

•  Establish and maintain a variety of recordkeeping/filing systems and/or databases including 

highly sensitive and confidential documentation and generate requested reports. 
•  Communicate effectively, tactfully and positively in both oral and written forms. 
•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training: 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade supplemented with coursework in business, 

office management, word processing or related fields. 

 
Experience: 

•  At least three (3) years of progressively responsible work experience performing 

clerical/secretarial duties in support of administrative and operational processes; preferably 
with a public sector organization. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required, verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall are necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies, and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES CLERK I/II 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To perform a wide variety of clerical and customer service functions in support of the City’s 
administrative and operational departments; to perform clerical accounting functions in the billing and 
collection of utility payments; to issue and process various permits, licenses and fees; and to function as 
a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
This job class is an entry level in the Administrative Services Clerk series.  This classification is 
distinguished from the Administrative Services Clerk II by the performance of more routine tasks and 
duties assigned to incumbents within this job class.  Incumbents in the Administrative Services Clerk I 
classification perform highly defined procedural tasks.  Employees in this job class will also perform 
higher level tasks in a training capacity.  Assigned duties fall within established parameters and there is 
less variation in the type of duties assigned or the amount of discretion assumed in the performance of 
assigned duties.  This job class requires clerical and word processing skills, organizational skills, the 
ability to produce quality work within established timelines and a positive customer service orientation. 
 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
This job class is the journey level in the Administrative Services Clerk series.  This classification is 
distinguished from the Administrative Services Clerk I by the wider variety of assigned tasks.  Employees 
in this job class may also perform higher level tasks in a training capacity.  Incumbents in this 
classification perform the full range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Incumbents in this 
classification receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are 
fully competent and knowledgeable of the operating procedures and policies within the City.  This job 
class may assume responsibility for performing multiple tasks in the initiating, tracking, follow through 
and completion of assigned operational processes.  Employees in this job class may also be cross trained 
in other clerical and accounting functions in order to provide competent back-up and additional 
administrative and operational support as necessary.  This job class requires clerical and word 
processing skills, organizational skills, mathematical skills, the ability to produce quality work within 
established timelines and a positive customer service orientation. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Employees in this classification receive direct supervision from the appropriate management position 
within a well-defined framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the appropriate management position 
within a framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Provides various clerical support for City departments; provides necessary typing, billing, 

calculating, record keeping, photocopying and distribution for the City. 

•  Acts as receptionist; answers the phone and initiates outgoing calls, greets visitors, responds to 

routine questions and requests for information, takes messages and refers more complex 
questions to the appropriate City resource. 

•  Provides customer service at the counter in the collection of utility payments as well as   permit 

and licensing fees; issues various licenses and permits; and provides general and specific 
information to public regarding City services, programs and operations.   

•  Acts as cashier; receives cash, makes change, prepares receipts; counts out daily cash drawer 

and reconciles. 

•  Attends Council, committee, and/or management meetings; prepares and distributes agendas 

and related documentation, takes notes, transcribes minutes and tracks and monitors 
designated follow-up activities. 

•  Processes utility payments; logs and enters payments into computerized database; notifies 

utility customers of policies and timelines regarding late payments; tracks non-payments and 
completes required reports and documentation. 

•  Prepares billing for City’s utility services; distributes in a timely manner and adjusts billing per 

direction and/or standard operating procedures as necessary. 

•  Follows-up on delinquent accounts to collect money owed from utility customers to ensure due 

process requirements and notification timelines are met; documents all  action taken. 

•  Gathers, prepares, and inputs data into computerized spreadsheets and/or databases; verifying 

data prior to inputting and proofreading output reports 

•  Maintains and updates customer database and records for all utility services; receives orders for 

new services and requests for shut-offs; notifies Public Works or Electrical Services of work 
orders pertaining to customer requests. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted office practices, procedures and techniques. 
•  Standard and accepted English usage in spelling, grammar and punctuation. 
•  Standard and accepted receptionist techniques and telephone etiquette. 
•  Standard and accepted cash accounting and balancing practices. 
•  Designated computer software and its applications. 

 
Ability to: 

• 

Learn and understand the administrative/operational procedures and practices of City’s 
operations and services. 
Learn and understand the City’s organization, policies and administrative/operational processes. 

• 
•  Understand and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions. 
•  Type/word process accurately and at a speed sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Utilize designated word processing, spreadsheet and database software programs accurately 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division 

and effectively. 

accurately. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Operate a variety of office machines and equipment including computer terminal, peripheral 

equipment, fax machine, copier and calculator. 

•  Communicate effectively and positively in both oral and written forms. 
•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted principles, practices and terminology used in basic accounting and 

•  Administrative/operational procedures and practices of City’s operations and services. 
•  City’s organization, policies and administrative/operational processes. 

bookkeeping. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent manner. 
•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks in an effective and timely manner. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Administrative Services Clerk I 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  At least one (1) year of work experience performing clerical, receptionist or public contact 

 
Experience 

duties. 

 
Administrative Services Clerk II 
Experience 

•  At least one (1) year of work experience performing duties similar to the Administrative Services 

Clerk I with the City of Gridley. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required; verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall is necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

APPRENTICE LINEWORKER (Part of Electric Lineworker Series) 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To assist in the installation, construction, maintenance and repair of City’s overhead and underground 
electrical transmission/distribution lines, substations and related electrical equipment in a training 
capacity; to perform a variety of manual labor in the performance of assigned duties and in support of 
designated work crew’s activities; to read, repair and maintain meters; and to function as a positive and 
cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the entry/training level in the Electrical Line Worker series.  This classification is 
distinguished from the journey level Electrical Line Worker job class by the performance of the more 
routine tasks and duties assigned to positions within this job class.  Incumbents in this job class are not 
expected or allowed to perform with the same independence of action as journey level Line Workers. 
 
This job class also provides on-the-job training for individuals completing a certified three-year 
apprenticeship program.  Incumbents in this job class must commit to working in this classification in 
addition to off-the-job home study (uncompensated time) in order to complete the apprenticeship 
program.  Continued employment in this job class is contingent upon both continuing satisfactory job 
performance and academic progress.  Failure to maintain satisfactory progress during the 
apprenticeship program may be grounds for termination of employment with the City. 
 
Incumbents in this job class and participants of the apprenticeship program shall be subject to the 
Apprentice On-The-Job Work Rules as specified in the California-Nevada Joint Apprentice Training Trust 
Fund. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive direct supervision from the Electrical Supervisor within a well-
defined framework or established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Assists in the performance of a wide range of skilled and technical tasks in the construction, 

installation, maintenance and repair of overhead and underground electrical 
transmission/distribution lines, substations, electrical services equipment and related facilities 
in a training capacity. 

•  Climbs poles; splices and repairs energized lines. 
•  Constructs new overhead and underground transmission and distribution lines. 
•  Sets poles, installs cross arms and breakers; strings, pulls, dead ends and energizes primary and 

secondary wires. 

•  Mounts, buses and energizes transformers and capacitors. 
• 

Installs switches, cutouts, lighting arresters, insulators, street lamps and other equipment on 
overhead lines. Installs and mounts switches, transformers, cable, risers, potheads, 
substructures, conduits and underground circuits. 

•  Runs service lines from poles to consumer’s premises. 
•  Connects, disconnects and replaces service loops. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Builds bypass lines; phases out and cuts in new circuits; cuts and taps primary lines. 
•  Mounts street light standards, heads and electrical control devices. 
•  Trims trees to clear wires; operates aerial bucket truck and high ranger. 
•  Reads residential and commercial electric and water meters; enters readings into record book as 

•  Cleans meter boxes and replaces broken meter boxes and lids; assists in performing routine 

assigned and as necessary. 

testing and maintenance on meters. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power, and hand-powered machines and equipment to include 
line truck, backhoe, front loader, aerial tower truck, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, trencher 
and forklift. 

•  Responds to service calls as well as emergency calls on weekends, holidays and   evenings to 

assist work crew with duties on an as-needed basis. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

 
Ability to: 

program. 

•  Basic principles of electricity. 
•  Basic methods, procedures, materials and tools utilized in electrical installations and 

maintenance. 

•  Basic work safety practices and methods. 
•  Standard and accepted methods and procedures of recordkeeping 

•  Read and write English at a level sufficient for successful job performance and related academic 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions. 
• 

Learn a variety of technical, complex and specialized electrical maintenance, repair and 
construction tasks. 
Learn the City and department operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned 
duties 
Learn to apply and practice a variety of safety practices, procedures and operating methods. 
Learn to operate a variety of hand powered electrical maintenance and construction equipment 
in a safe and effective manner. 
Learn to operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, 
construction and repair of electrical distribution lines, equipment, substations and related 
facilities in a safe and effective manner. 

• 

• 
• 

• 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. 
•  Maintain routine records and logs. 
•  Communicate orally and in writing in an effective and tactful manner. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties on high poles, in confined spaces, and among high voltage/energized 

power lines in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training: 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

 
Experience: 

desirable. 

•  Prior experience working in electrical utility services, maintenance or construction is highly 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, and employee is required to climb electric poles and perform duties up to 
90 feet above the ground; an employee is required to work around and on live (hot) wires. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic, at heights and underground.  
Continuous contact with staff and service users; occasional contact with other agencies and businesses 
as well as the general public. 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

BUSINESS SERVICES SUPERVISOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general direction of the Finance Director, plans, directs, supervises and participates in providing 
billing and collections operational oversight with an emphasis on customer service which includes 
resolving customer billing problems and complaints; establishing, disconnecting and reconnecting 
service; performing high/low bill investigation; resolving customer inquiries; and oversight of business 
license functions, and accepting payments for other City financial responsibilities. Additionally, business 
services include various clerical and technical accounting and fiscal record management functions 
utilizing manual and computerized systems and procedures to process accounts payable invoices and 
payment and prepare necessary reports; to participate in the maintenance of the general ledger and 
subsidiary ledgers; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
Employees in this classification are fully competent and knowledgeable in all areas of utility billing, 
accounts payable, accounts receivable, and general ledger bookkeeping.  Employees in this classification 
must possess and in-depth knowledge of these technical accounting functions in order to act as a 
resource and lead to others in the performance of responsible technical/clerical accounting 
assignments.  This job class also requires excellent organizational skills, communication skills and a high 
level of attention to detail. 
 
SUPERVISION 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Finance Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification 
provide technical and/or functional supervision over Administrative Services Clerk I and II. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plan, organize and direct electric, water, and wastewater utility billing, revenue protection, 

meter reading, field services, customer service, and business licensing activities.  
•  Plans, directs and supervises the work of Administrative Services Clerks I and II. 
•  Plans, monitors, evaluates work, reviews workload, status of projects and availability of 

supervised personnel for assignments. 

•  Schedules, assigns and oversees work processes to meet regular and delinquent billing 

schedules; analyzes and plans for potential problems. 

•  Resolves the most complex problems involving customer complaints, billing, statements, fees, 

payments and other service-related problems. 

•  Receives revenues from licenses, permits, recreation fees and other City revenue accounts. 
•  Acts as a liaison to field personnel to initiate or resolve issues relating to high or low bill 

investigations, meter reliability, disconnections and reconnections of water service. 

•  Reviews and approves cash receipt and utility billing adjustments to customer accounts 

prepared by employees that are supervised. 

•  Actively supervises incoming calls and takes the lead role in providing outstanding customer 

service through innovation, staffing, active participation and continuous improvement efforts. 

•  Trains others in and supervises cash handling to ensure compliance with City 

standards and procedures. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in the City’s processing of accounts payable; preparing 

purchase orders; verifying invoices against receiving documents for accuracy; coding accounts 
payable for departmental responsibility. 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in auditing incoming invoices and supporting 

documentation to verify accuracy and adherence to legal mandates and operational guidelines; 
prepares and issues checks; processes manual check requests. 

•  Records and maintains appropriate controls over purchase orders and accounts payable system, 

auditing and financial analysis, grant accounting and special reports. 

•  Calculates business license fees and fines and administers and assigns the business license 
process while ensuring that all entities conducting business within the City have a required 
business license. 

•  Trains clerical staff, temporary workers and/or volunteers in the City’s Finance Department on 

the operations, procedures and practices within the department as assigned. 

•  Recommends controls to ensure the reliability of the system and integrity of the data and 

ensures implemented processes continue to support the financial system reporting and 
functional capabilities. 

•  Develops and maintains positive public relations with emphasis on customer service.   
•  Participates in the selection, supervision, continuous improvement, evaluation and approved 
progressive discipline of personnel; assists in the design and implementation of motivational 
programs; facilitates staff training and professional development; coaches, recommends and 
implements goals and objectives. 

•  Participates as a member of the Finance Department management team to assist in developing 

and enforcing department policies 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Principles of organization, management, and effective supervision. 
•  Customer service, customer billing and collection techniques. 
•  Modern methods of records management. 
•  Utility rate structures and schedules. 
•  Safe work practices and related regulations. 
•  Principles of public speaking, conflict resolution and excellent customer service. 
•  City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 
•  Standard and accepted accounts payable, accounts receivable, collections and general financial 

systems and practices.  

 
Ability to: 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
•  Develop logical, concise and clear reports and correspondence; use standard business English, 

spelling and punctuation. 
Learn and understand pertinent laws, codes, regulations and guidelines governing fiscal 
recordkeeping and reporting for municipalities. 

• 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Interact with the public effectively and courteously, with excellent face-to face and telephone 
communications 

•  Explain policies and utility rates to customers. 
• 
•  Operate designated software programs including word processing, spreadsheets and databases 

Learn and understand the City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 

effectively. 

•  Audit, verify and transfer large quantities of numbers and related data accurately and at a speed 

sufficient for successful job performance. 

•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks for self and others in an effective and timely manner. 
• 

Identify problems/issues, collect relevant data, analyze options according to established  criteria, 
and recommend appropriate course of action within prescribed alternatives. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these abilities and knowledge would be: 
 
Training 

•  High school diploma or equivalent supplemented with coursework in accounting, fiscal records 

management or a closely related field. Associate degree in applicable field of Business preferred. 

 
Experience 

•  At least three (3) years of full-time increasingly responsible relevant banking, accounting or 

office experience which included work experience in customer service, general administration or 
municipal utility billing, of which at least one (1) year must have been served in a supervisory 
capacity. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required; verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall are necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

ELECTRIC LINEWORKER (Part of Electric Lineworker Series) 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To install, construct, maintain and repair City’s overhead and underground electric distribution lines, 
and substations; to perform skilled and technical work in support of the City’s electrical utility services; 
to perform a variety of manual labor in the accomplishment of assigned duties; to perform other 
responsible and specialized tasks related to customer services and/or in support of the City organization; 
and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISITICS 
This job class functions at the journey level of job performance and are expected to perform the full 
range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Incumbents perform a variety of skilled and 
technical activities in the maintenance, construction, and repair of electrical distribution facilities and 
equipment.  Incumbents in this classification receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or 
unusual situations arise and are fully competent and knowledgeable of industry standards as well as the 
operating procedures and policies within the Electric Department. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Electric Supervisor within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to the following: 

•  Performs a wide range of skilled and technical tasks in the construction, installation, 

maintenance and repair of overhead and underground electrical distribution lines, substations, 
electrical services equipment and related facilities. 

•  Climbs poles, works from aerial tower truck and underground to install and replace primary and 

secondary lines and related equipment. 

•  Sets and guys poles, installs cross arms and brackets, strings lines. 
• 

Installs line equipment such as transformers, switches, cut-outs, disconnects, lighting arrestors, 
insulators, circuit breakers, street light fixtures, and other line apparatus. 
Installs, hooks-up and maintains pole mounted transformer banks or stations serving industrial, 
commercial and residential customers. 

• 

•  Reconstructs existing primary lines, hardware and transformers. 
•  Phases out and cuts in new circuits. 
•  Switches load from one primary to another by closing and opening switches and disconnects. 
•  Tests pole lines and other facilities. 
•  Removes, tests, calibrates and replaces electrical meters. 
•  Trims trees to line clearance standards. 
•  Performs a variety of maintenance, testing and repair work on live wires and power lines 

utilizing hotstick in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Provides training and direction to other unit staff on an as needed basis; acts as a resource in 

areas of expertise or the more routine operations and procedures. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power, and hand-powered machines and equipment to include 
line truck, backhoe, front loader, aerial tower truck, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, trencher 
and forklift. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

standby duty as assigned and as necessary. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools, and equipment used in the construction, maintenance 

and repair of electrical transmission/distribution lines, related equipment and facilities.  

•  Standard and accepted principles and techniques in the construction and repair of high-voltage 

overhead and underground electrical lines, equipment and facilities.  

•  Standard and accepted operation and maintenance of a variety of power equipment and 

•  National electric codes and safety orders. 
•  Standard and accepted safety practices and standards applicable to high voltage and electrical 

vehicles. 

linework. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent manner. 
• 
•  Operate a variety of hand powered electrical maintenance and construction equipment  in a 

Learn the City’s operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 

safe and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, construction and 
repair of electrical distribution lines, equipment, substations and related facilities in a safe and 
effective manner. 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. 
•  Maintain routine records and logs and prepare routine reports. 
•  Communicate orally and in writing in an effective and tactful manner. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties on high poles, in confined spaces, and among high voltage/energized 

power lines in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and ability would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  The successful completion of an approved apprenticeship program as an electrical line worker. 

 
Experience 

•  Prior experience working in electrical utility services. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach, and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors, and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally life and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, an employee is required to climb electric poles and perform duties up to 
90 feet above the ground; an employee is required to work around and on live (hot) wires. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic, at heights, and underground.  
Continuous contact with staff and service users; occasional contact with other agencies and businesses 
as well as the general public. 
 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

ELECTRIC SUPERVISOR (Part of Electric Lineworker Series) 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To plan, schedule, supervise and participate in the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of 
designated municipal electrical distribution systems; to plan, schedule, supervise and participate in the 
repair and maintenance of electrical utility equipment, lines and facilities; to provide technical 
assistance and resources to assigned staff; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTIINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the first line, working supervisor in the electrical services job series.  Employees in this 
classification perform a variety of specialized and technical functions and are expected to possess in-
depth knowledge of electrical utility operations, standards and procedures for a municipal agency.  
Incumbents in this job class are responsible for the completion and coordination of assigned and on-
going electrical services projects as well as special project activities.  In addition to performing the full 
range of duties assigned to the Electrical Services Line Worker, this job class is also responsible for 
supervising and training subordinate staff in all day to day activities as well as special 
projects/assignments and emergency responses.  This job class requires a high degree of technical 
knowledge and expertise as well as organizational, communications and customer service skills. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general direction from the City Administrator within a framework 
of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification exercise 
direct supervision over skilled and semi-skilled technical staff, apprentice and clerical positions. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following; 
 

•  Plans, schedules, supervises and participates in a wide range of skilled and technical tasks in the 

construction, installation, maintenance and repair of overhead and underground electrical 
distribution lines, substations, electrical services equipment and related facilities. 

•  Coordinates, supervises and monitors the customer service and meter reading/recording 

functions for the City’s electrical utility services to include the maintenance, repair and 
installation of meters for both residential and commercial services. 

•  Provides and/or coordinates all training activities for assigned staff to include safety, technical 

and operations training and education; coordinates, monitors, tests and  participates in 
teaching/mentoring a certified apprenticeship program. 
Inspects electrical transmission/distribution lines, facilities, equipment and work in progress to 
ensure that proper maintenance and repair are occurring; reviews schedules, timelines, work 
and equipment usage records to ensure the proper allocation of resources; re-allocates and/or 
recommends re-allocation of resources as necessary. 

• 

•  Receives and responds to a variety of customer requests, concerns and complaints regarding 

electrical utility functions and activities; gathers pertinent data, researches inquiry and initiates 
appropriate response/action and/or refers customer to an alternative resource. 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Oversees, coordinates and monitors the work of contractors and outside engineers performing 
new construction or repairs for the City’s electrical services projects; inspects work in progress 
and provides management with updates and status reports. 

•  Establishes and/or maintains a variety of logs, work orders and records and prepares reports on 

operations periodically and upon request; reviews and verifies logs and reports completed by 
subordinate staff to ensure compliance with pertinent regulatory requirements. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power and hand-powered machines and equipment to  include 
line truck, backhoe, front loader, aerial tower truck, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, trencher 
and forklift. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

standby duty as assigned and as necessary. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment used in the construction,  maintenance 

and repair of electrical transmission/distribution lines, related equipment and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted principles and techniques in the construction and repair of high-voltage 

overhead and underground electrical lines, equipment and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and maintenance of a variety of power equipment and 

•  National electrical codes and safety orders. 
•  Standard and accepted safety practices and standards applicable to high voltage and electrical 

vehicles. 

line work. 

•  City’s operations, policies and procedures as related to assigned duties. 
•  Standard and accepted principles of supervision and employee training. 
•  Basic budgeting and control processes and methods. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand, interpret and carry out a wide variety of oral and written instructions in an 

•  Operate a variety of hand powered electrical maintenance and construction equipment  in a 

independent manner. 

safe and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, construction and 
repair of electrical distribution lines, equipment, substations and related facilities in a safe and 
effective manner. 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. 
•  Supervise, train and motivate assigned clerical and technical staff in an effective and positive 

manner. 

•  Prioritize and schedule workload effectively for self and others. 
• 

Identify problem, research and gather pertinent information, determine alternatives, and 
initiate/recommend the proper course of action. 

•  Establish and maintain a variety of administrative records and logs and prepare clear and 

concise reports. 

 

•  Communicate orally and in writing in an effective and tactful manner. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties on high poles, in confined spaces and among high voltage/energized 

power lines in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  The successful completion of an approved apprenticeship program as an electrical line   worker. 

 
Experience 

•  Four (4) years of increasingly responsible experience performing electrical line worker 

construction, maintenance and repair work including at least two (2) years in a lead capacity. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, an employee is required to climb electric poles and perform duties up to 
90 feet above the ground; and employee is required to work around and on live (hot) wires. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic, at heights, and underground.  
Continuous contact with staff and service users; occasional contact with other agencies and businesses 
as well as the general public is also required.  
 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

MAINTENANCE WORKER I/II 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To perform a wide variety of maintenance, repair and construction work on city streets, storm drains, 
water and sewer system operations, parks, buildings and other city facilities; to assist in the operational 
support of public wells, sewer treatment plant and related services; to provide efficient customer 
service and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
 
Maintenance Worker I 
This job class is the entry level in the Maintenance Worker series.  This classification is distinguished 
from the journey level by the performance of the more routine tasks and duties assigned to positions 
within this job class.  Incumbents in this job class are not expected to perform with the same 
independence of action as journey level employees.  Incumbents in this job class may perform the more 
skilled tasks in a training capacity. 
 
Maintenance Worker II 
Incumbents in this classification function at the journey level of job performance and are expected to 
perform the full range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Incumbents in this classification 
receive only occasional instruction or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are fully 
competent and knowledgeable of the operating procedures and policies within the Public Works 
department.  Although individual positions may be assigned to specialized work units, incumbents in this 
job class are expected to be cross-trained and fully functional in all areas of public work activities and 
assignments.  Positions within this job class are flexibly staffed and are normally filled by advancement 
from the entry level. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
 
Maintenance Worker I 
Employees in this classification receive direct supervision from the Public Works Director or his/her 
designee within a well-defined framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
Maintenance Worker II 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Public Works Director or his/her 
designee within a well-defined framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Performs a wide range of maintenance, repair and construction activities on city streets, 

water/sewer systems, storm drains, curbs, sidewalks, parks and other facilities. 

•  Assists in the performance of operational and monitoring activities in support of the City’s 

water/sewer treatment facilities. 

•  Repairs and maintains water and wastewater distribution and pumping equipment; repairs 

leaks; replaces broken lines with appropriate pipes; measures, cuts and threads  pipe. 

•  Maintains and cleans sewer lines; enters manholes to access lines; operates power and   hand 

rodders in the cleaning process. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Repairs, maintains, constructs and breaks up a variety of paved surfaces; patches and paves 
utilizing pre-mixed asphalt; breaks up and removes old concrete utilizing a jackhammer and a 
variety of hand tools; builds forms, mixes and pours new concrete sidewalks, curbs, gutters, 
drop inlets and catch basins. 

•  Repairs, maintains, constructs and installs traffic signs; paints curb and traffic markings on 

streets and intersections utilizing hand brush, roller and/or spray guns; controls traffic in a safe 
and effective manner. 

•  Performs a variety of grounds keeping and landscaping activities in the maintenance of   city 

parks, playgrounds and areas surrounding city buildings and other facilities; mows weeds, 
waters, trims, seeds and fertilizes lawns, turf and planting areas; prunes trees and shrubs 
utilizing a ladder and /or other climbing equipment. 
Installs and repairs sprinkler systems; removes and replaces sprinkler heads and  automatic 
controllers. 

• 

•  Performs a variety of unskilled/semi-skilled and heavy physical labor; removes, hauls and dumps 

trash. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power and hand-powered machines and equipment to  include 
roller, dump truck, backhoe/front loader, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, arc welder, sewer 
rodder, mower, concrete saw, auger or sand blasting machine, pick-up truck, street sweeper, 
shovels, rakes, picks, hoes, wrenches, edgers, drills and saws. 

•  Performs preventative and routine maintenance on assigned vehicles and other  motorized and 

power equipment, notifies appropriate personnel regarding needed repairs and/or other 
operational problems. 
Identifies a variety of safety/health hazards as well as public works facilities and systems in need 
of maintenance or repair; notifies appropriate party of potential problems to ensure a timely 
and effective response. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

• 

standby duty as assigned and as necessary. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Maintenance Worker I 
Knowledge of: 

construction activities. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of a variety of municipal public works operations and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and routine maintenance of motorized vehicles and power 

equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and construction of a variety of municipal public 
works operations and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted safety procedures applicable to a variety of maintenance and 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions. 
• 
• 

Learn the City’s operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 
Learn the operations and maintenance of city’s water and sewer treatment and  distribution 
operations and related systems. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Learn to operate a variety of light to heavy motorized and power equipment utilized in the 
maintenance, repair and construction of the City’s public works operations and    
facilities in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of hand powered maintenance and constructions equipment in a safe  and 

 

effective manner. 

division. 

•  Perform routine mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and 

•  Maintain routine records and logs. 
•  Communicate orally in an effective and tactful manner. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
Maintenance Worker II 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
Knowledge of: 

•  Water/wastewater treatment plant and systems operations and maintenance. 

 
Ability to: 

systems. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Understand and follow a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent manner. 
•  Operate and maintain the City’s water/wastewater treatment plant operations and related 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of the City’s public works operations and facilities in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience, which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities, is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and ability would be: 
 
Maintenance Worker I 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at  

 

level required for successful job performance. 

•  Some prior experience in the construction, maintenance, grounds keeping or landscaping 

 
Experience 

industry. 

 
 
 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

Maintenance Worker II 
Training 

 
Experience 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  Two (2) years of increasingly responsible work equivalent to the duties performed by the 

Maintenance Worker I with City of Gridley. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Required to use hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles and other 
motorized equipment; stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; talk and hear 
clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors and fellow employees on a 
continuous basis.  Required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move objects weighing up to 25 
pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s vision requirements for the 
performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, 
depth perception and the ability to adjust focus. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic and underground.  Continuous 
contact with staff, service users, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

PUBLIC WORKS MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To oversee, coordinate and monitor the City’s Public Works maintenance and field construction which 
includes a variety of maintenance, repair and construction work on City streets, storm drains, water and 
sewer system operations, parks and other City facilities; to perform the more complex maintenance, 
repair and construction tasks; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the working supervisor in the Maintenance Worker series.  Incumbents in this 
classification perform a variety of specialized maintenance functions and are expected to possess in-
depth knowledge of Public Works operations, standards and procedures.  Incumbents in this job class 
are responsible for the completion and coordination of assigned and on-going public works programs as 
well as special project activities.  In addition to performing the full range of duties assigned to the 
Maintenance Worker series, this job class is also responsible for supervising and training subordinate 
staff in the day to day activities and as assigned.  Job duties are performed according to standard and 
accepted trade practices but with latitude for independent judgment in the determination of work 
methods and materials to be used. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Public Works Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification 
exercise direct supervision over Maintenance Worker I, Maintenance Worker II and Senior Maintenance 
Worker positions. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Coordinates, oversees, monitors and participates in the performance of a wide range of 

maintenance, repair and construction activities on City streets, water/wastewater plants and 
systems, storm drains, curbs, sidewalks, parks and other facilities.  

•  Coordinates, oversees, monitors and participates in the installation of new water and sewer 

mains and repair of existing mains and service lines as well as the maintenance and cleaning of 
sewer lines. 

•  Oversees, coordinates, monitors and participates in the City’s water/wastewater treatment 

plants and related systems operations to ensure that City complies with all pertinent regulations 
and guidelines. 

•  Receives and responds to a variety of customer requests, concerns and complaints regarding 

public works functions and activities; researches inquiry and initiates appropriate 
response/action and/or refers customer to appropriate resource. 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in the repair, maintenance, construction and break up of a 
variety of paved surfaces; patches and paves new concrete sidewalks, curbs, gutters, drop inlets 
and catch basins utilizing pre-mixed asphalt. 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in the repair, maintenance, construction and installation 

of traffic signs; painting curb and traffic markings on streets and intersections utilizing hand 
brush, roller and/or spray guns. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in the performance of a variety of grounds keeping and 
landscaping activities in the maintenance of City parks, playgrounds, landscape strips and the 
swimming pool; installing and repairing sprinkler systems. 

•  Oversees, coordinates and monitors the work of contractors and outside engineers performing 

new construction or repair for the City’s public works projects; inspects work in progress and 
provides management with updates and status reports. 

•  Trains subordinate staff in the City’s and Public Works’ operations, procedures and system 
maintenance as well as the safe and efficient operation of a variety of motorized vehicles, 
equipment and machines. 

•  Establishes and/or maintains a variety of logs, work orders and records and prepares reports on 

operations periodically and upon request; reviews and verifies logs and reports completed by 
subordinate staff to ensure compliance with pertinent regulatory requirements. 

•  Supervises and evaluates assigned work teams to ensure the completion of daily work orders; 

monitors and inspects completed projects/assignments. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power and hand-powered machines and equipment to  include 

roller, dump truck, backhoe/loader, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, sewer rodder, mower, 
concrete saw, auger or sand blasting machine, pick-up truck and street sweeper. 

•  Assists the Public Works Director in administrative and operational functions as assigned; 

provides backup to the Public Works Director in his/her absence and as necessary. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

standby duty as assigned and necessary. 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of a variety of municipal public works operations and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and routine maintenance of motorized vehicles and power 

equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and construction of a variety of municipal public 
works operations and facilities. 

•  City’s operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 
•  Standard and accepted operations and maintenance of City’s water/wastewater treatment 

plants and related systems. 

•  Standard and accepted safety procedures applicable to a variety of maintenance and 

construction activities. 

•  Basic principles and practices of supervision. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand, carry out and interpret a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent 

and successful manner. 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of the City’s public works operations and facilities in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of hand powered maintenance and construction equipment in a safe and 

•  Perform routine mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and 

effective manner. 

division. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Identify problem, gather pertinent information and develop alternative solutions, make 
appropriate recommendation for plan of action. 
•  Establish and maintain routine records and logs. 
•  Prepare a variety of administrative documentation, forms and reports. 
•  Communicate effectively and tactfully in both oral and written forms. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

 

 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

 
Experience 

•  At least two (2) years of progressively responsible work experience equivalent to the duties 
performed by the Senior Maintenance Worker with the City of Gridley and including some 
supervisory experience. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, an employee is regularly exposed to hot or cold temperatures, working 
outdoors and in cramped spaces, underground work and in traffic. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic and underground.  Continuous 
contact with staff, service users, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public.  
 
 

 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

SENIOR MAINTENANCE WORKER 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To oversee, monitor and participate in a variety of maintenance, repair and construction work on City 
streets, storm drains, water and sewer system operations, parks, buildings and other City facilities; to 
maintain, monitor and oversee the City’s well water and wastewater treatment operations and 
distribution systems; to perform the more complex maintenance, repair and construction tasks and to 
function as a positive and cooperative team member 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the advanced journey level in the Maintenance Worker series.  Incumbents in this 
classification perform a variety of specialized maintenance functions and are expected to possess in-
depth knowledge of public works operations, standards, and procedures.  Incumbents in this job class 
are responsible for the performance and completion of assigned and on-going public works programs as 
well as special project activities.  In addition to performing the full range of duties assigned to the 
Maintenance Worker series, this job class may also be responsible for providing lead direction and 
training subordinate staff as assigned.  Incumbents in this job class may have the day to day 
responsibility of a designated work area/public works function.  Job duties are performed according to 
standard and accepted trade practices, but with considerable latitude for independent judgment in the 
determination of work methods and materials to be used.   
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Public Works Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification 
exercise technical and functional supervision over Maintenance Worker I and Maintenance Worker II 
positions. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include but are not limited to the following: 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in the performance of a wide range of maintenance, repair, 

and construction activities on City streets, water/wastewater distribution operations and 
systems, storm drains, curbs, sidewalks, parks and other facilities. 

•  Controls the operations of well water distribution and wastewater treatment and pumping 
facilities and systems to ensure proper processing of water and wastewater and disposal of 
sludge and effluent in compliance with all applicable and mandated operating requirements; 
samples and tests water/wastewater, adjusting chemicals as necessary; verifying and recording 
results and findings; and preparing necessary and required reports and logs. 

•  Oversees, monitors, and participates in the installation of new water and sewer mains and 

repair of existing mains and service lines as well as the maintenance and cleaning of sewer lines. 

•  Receives and responds to a variety of customer requests, concerns and complaints regarding 

public works functions and activities; researches answer or refers inquiry to appropriate 
resource. 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in the repair, maintenance, construction and break  up of a 

variety of paved surfaces; patching and paving of new concrete and sidewalks, curbs, gutters, 
drop inlets and catch basins utilizing pre-mixed asphalt. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Oversees, monitors and participates in the repair, maintenance, construction and installation of 
traffic signs; painting curb and traffic markings on streets and intersections utilizing hand brush, 
roller and /or spray guns; oversees traffic control according to pertinent safety procedures and 
practices. 

•  Oversees, monitors, and participates in the performance of a variety of groundskeeping  and 

landscaping activities in the maintenance of City parks, playgrounds, and other landscaped 
areas; installing and repairing sprinkler systems. 

•  Establishes and maintains a variety of logs, work orders, and records and prepares reports on 

operations periodically and upon request. 
Inspects assigned facilities and work areas to identify needed maintenance and repair work, 
safety or health hazards, and/or unusual operating conditions; diagnoses problem and initiates 
appropriate response activities. 

• 

• 

•  Oversees and monitors assigned work teams to ensure the completion of daily work orders; 

monitors and inspects completed projects/assignments 
Initiates requests for the purchase of necessary equipment, supplies and materials; prepares the 
purchase requisition and researches costs and availability. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power, and hand-powered machines and equipment to include 

roller, dump truck, backhoe, front loader, camera truck, hydro flusher, jackhammer, tamper, 
compressor, sewer rodder, mower, concrete saw, auger or sand blasting machine, pick-up truck 
and street sweeper. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on week-ends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

standby duty as assigned and necessary. 

•  Performs related duties as assigned. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of a variety of municipal public works operations and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and routine maintenance of motorized vehicles and power 

equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and construction of a variety of municipal public 
works operations and facilities. 

•  City’s operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 
•  Standard and accepted operations and maintenance of City’s water/wastewater distribution and 

treatment plant operations and related systems. 

•  Standard and accepted safety procedures applicable to a variety of maintenance and 

construction activities. 

 
Ability to: 

and successful manner. 

•  Understand, carry out, and interpret a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair, and 

construction of the City’s public works operations and facilities in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of hand powered maintenance and construction equipment in a safe and 

•  Perform routine mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and 

effective manner. 

division. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Establish and maintain routine records and logs. 
•  Prepare a variety of administrative documentation, forms and reports. 
•  Communicate effectively and tactfully in both oral and written forms. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 
•  Possession of a valid Water Treatment Plant Operator’s Certificate II issued by the State of 

•  Possession of a valid Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator’s Certificate II issued by the State of 

California Department of Public Health. 

California Water Resources Control Board 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

 
Experience 

•  At least two (2) years of progressively responsible work experience equivalent to the duties 

performed by the Maintenance Worker II with the City of Gridley. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach, and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors, and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and /or carry and / or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, an employee is regularly exposed to hot or cold temperatures, working 
outdoors and in cramped spaces, underground work and in traffic. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic and underground.  Continuous 
contact with staff, service users, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TRANSIT VEHICLE OPERATOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To operate various types of buses through light to heavy city traffic in a safe and prudent manner.  
Ensures that the highest quality of dial-a-ride bus service is delivered to the transit system’s customers.  
To assist in the operational support of the City’s dial-a-ride transit service as well as support for the 
City’s recreation department and Recreation Coordinator.  To provide customer service and to function 
as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class functions at the journey level of job performance and incumbents are expected to perform 
in the full range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Incumbents in this classification receive 
only occasional instruction or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are fully competent and 
knowledgeable of the operating procedures and policies within the Transit Department. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the City Administrator or his/her 
designee within a well-defined framework or established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Assists customers in a friendly, courteous, helpful manner.  This includes assisting persons with 

disabilities onto and off of the wheelchair lift and with safety restraints, as requested by the 
customer. 

•  Acts as front-line point of contact to ensure delivery of quality customer service. 
•  Complies with all City safety rules and operates assigned vehicle to meet customer standards. 
•  Complies with all state and local laws pertaining to the operation of buses, traffic and safety. 
•  Safely and efficiently boards, de-boards and transports customers from one point to another, 

using a variety of bus types and potentially a 14-passenger paratransit van with an installed 
wheelchair lift. 

•  Effectively utilizes customer schedules, and information of choice (i.e., operator  handbook) to 

meet timepoints and to efficiently carry passengers. 

•  Maintains and accurate daily log of passengers served, miles traveled and service hours; 

including preparation of a daily vehicle checklist. 

•  Safely and efficiently utilizes equipment on buses, including lifts, cellular phone, radio, 

emergency equipment, hatches, rear engine compartment door, etc. 

•  Maneuvers bus safely and on schedule through busy traffic. 
•  Performs pre-trip and post-trip inspections to ensure bus and equipment is in safe, proper 

working condition.  Provides documentation of daily inspections through the use of the logbook. 

•  Communicates detour, accident, and incident information to radio dispatch, and responds to 

instructions given. 

policies. 

•  Makes effective independent decisions and handles conflicts base on experience, training and 

•  Works a variety of hours, days and shifts, including specified holidays and split shifts. 
•  Fuels vehicles and secures regular preventative maintenance (such as oil changes) as needed. 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Complies with the Operators Manual. 
•  Other related duties as assigned. 
•  Assists the Recreation Coordinator with clerical, office and communications duties as requested. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

dial-a-ride bus system. 

 
Ability to: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment utilized in the operations of a paratransit 

•  Standard and accepted operation of motorized vehicles and power equipment utilized in the 

operations of a paratransit dial-a-ride system.   

•  Excellent interpersonal and communication skills essential. 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions. 
• 
• 

Learn the City’s operations, policies and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 
Learn the operations of the City’s dial-a-ride transit system and the maintenance requirements 
of the City’s dial-a-ride transit bus and van.   

•  Quickly gain a thorough knowledge of all routes and fare structures of all systems. 
•  Safely operate a bus in stressful situations is required. 
• 

Interact with passengers and traffic in a calm, professional manner at all times while maintaining 
an on-time route schedule. 

•  Read, follow, and comprehend paddles, schedules, timetables, detours, bulletins and any other 

training and job-related information 

•  Comprehend and complete accident and incident reports. 
•  Operate all equipment in a safe, efficient and proper manner, including lift, radio, cellular 

phone, emergency equipment, hatches, rear engine compartment, etc. 

•  Operate any assigned vehicle and its equipment, including every type of bus and van owned by 

•  Work varied hours, days and shifts, including holidays, Saturdays, Sundays and split shifts. 
•  Maintain a valid Class B with Passenger endorsed Commercial Driver’s License and an excellent 

•  Pass an employment physical examination (pre-employment or renewal) including a substance 

the City 

driving record. 

abuse screening. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Carries valid Class C, passenger endorsed driver license and City issued CPR and First Aid cards at 

all times while on duty.  (May require Class B driver license.) 

•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 
required for successful job performance. (Possible requirement: The incumbent would have had 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

to successfully complete transit training as required to receive the passenger endorsement for a 
DMV Class B license.) 

 
Experience 

•  Prior experience in the dial-a-ride transit industry.  Two years of increasingly responsible work 

equivalent to the duties performed by the Transit Operator with City of Gridley.  Must be 21 
years of age or older. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sit for extended periods.  Kneel, stoop, crawl, bend, reach and crouch.  Stand, climb and walk. 
Push or pull an occupied wheelchair.  Lift or carry objects weighing up to 25 pounds frequently and 
occasionally lift, carry or move up to 100 pounds.  Required use of hands, fingers, legs and feet to 
operate the paratransit vehicles.  Talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, 
supervisors and fellow employees on a continuous basis.  Employees vision requirements for the 
performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, 
depth perception and the ability to adjust focus. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many of the assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions, including 
exposure to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic and in all types of weather 
conditions.  Continuous contact with staff, service users (riders) other agencies and businesses as well as 
the general public. 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

UTILITY TECHNICIAN 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To read and record readings of electric and water meters for all City utility customers; to provide a 
variety of customer services for utility users including service set-ups and shut-offs, delinquency 
notification; to perform electrical grounds worker duties in support of line crew; and to function as a 
positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
Incumbents in this classification are expected to perform the full range of assigned duties in an 
independent manner.  Incumbents in this classification receive only occasional instruction or assistance 
as new or unusual situations arise and are fully competent and knowledgeable of the operating 
procedures and policies related to both electric and water utility services.  In addition to performing on-
going and assigned customer service functions, this job class may assist the line crew as a grounds 
worker on an as needed basis.  This job class requires excellent communication and organizational skills 
as well as the technical knowledge and skills to effectively provide the necessary customer services. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Electrical Supervisor within a well-
defined framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES  
Duties include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Collects automated meter reading data for both residential and commercial meters for City’s 

water and electric customers. 

•  Performs Underground Service Alert locating services to identify and accurately mark sewer, 

water, storm drain and electric facilities, install and remove utility (water and electric) meters, 
obtain voltage reads, maintain clearances, reports meter malfunctions to appropriate source, 
ground maintenance at substations and corporation yard. 
Investigates fence permit applications and marks City Right of Way. 

• 
•  Performs utility turn-ons and turn-offs per work orders; notifies customer of payment 

delinquency, posts notice, tracks time lines per regulation/guidelines, and terminates service as 
necessary. 

•  Acts as a resource and liaison to utility customers; receives complaints, inquiries and/or 

requests and initiates response and/or refers to appropriate resource. 

•  Follows up on any billing and/or usage discrepancies/questions; gathers relevant data, 

investigates and troubleshoots to resolve potential problems or discrepancies. 

•  Notes and reports any illegal or non-compliance issues/conditions related to utility services and 

accompanying equipment such as illegal utility   connections/reconnections; code violations, 
and/or unsafe or hazardous conditions; follows up on issues/problems to ensure a successful 
conclusion. 

•  Enters new/revised utility account information into electronic data collector; verifies data on 

existing and new accounts to ensure proper correlation with the City’s system. 

•  Performs a variety of unskilled, semi-skilled and manual labor in support of the electrical line 

crew and the City’s electrical services; hoists and places utility poles in holes; raises and lowers 
equipment and tools, digs trenches. 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Operates motor vehicles, service truck, performs preventative maintenance and minor repair 

work on assigned vehicles on an ongoing and as needed basis. 

•  Operates a variety of equipment and machines such as jackhammer, basic hand tools, personal 

computer and electronic data collector. 

•  Assists in a variety of electrical services and/or customer support activities in emergency 

• 

situations. 
Identifies a variety of safety/health hazards as well as public works facilities and  systems in need 
of maintenance or repair; notifies appropriate party of potential problems to ensure a timely 
and effective response. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as necessary. 
•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

and technology. 

•  Standard and accepted meter reading and recording methods and procedures. 
•  Standard and accepted utility meter and related equipment’s maintenance and repair methods 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools, and equipment utilized in the maintenance, repair and 

construction of a variety of electrical and water services operations and  facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and maintenance of a variety of power equipment and 

•  Standard and accepted safety procedures applicable to a variety of maintenance and 

•  Pertinent regulations and guidelines related to delinquency notification procedures and  utility 

vehicles. 

construction activities. 

termination processes. 

•  Personal computers and designated database software. 

 
Ability to: 

Learn the City’s operations, policies, and procedures as they relate to assigned duties. 

•  Understand and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions in an independent manner. 
• 
•  Operate assigned and specialized trucks/motorized vehicles in a safe and effective manner. 
•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. 
•  Operate a variety of hand-powered maintenance and construction equipment in a safe and 

effective manner. 

•  Maintain routine records and logs and prepare routine reports. 
•  Communicate orally and in writing in an effective and tactful manner. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. (Class B desirable) 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 

 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience, which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities, is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these abilities and knowledge would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

 
Experience 

•  At least one (1) year of general labor work including the repair and maintenance of equipment 

and facilities.  Prior experience working in electrical utility services, maintenance, or 
construction is highly desirable.  

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Required to use hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other 
motorized equipment; stand, climb, stop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach, and crouch; talk and hear 
clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors, and fellow employees on a 
continuous basis.  Required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move objects weighing up to 50 
pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s vision requirements for the 
performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, 
depth perception, and the ability to adjust focus. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces; occasionally required to work in traffic and 
underground.  Employee may occasionally be subject of customer hostility.   
 
 

IBEW 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

From: 
 
Subject: 

City Council Agenda Item #3 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Council   

X  Regular  
 
Special 
 
Closed 
 
Emergency 

City Administrator/Finance Director Paul Eckert and Police Chief Al Byers 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-023: A Resolution of the City Council of the City of 
Gridley Approving the Memorandum of Understanding Between the Gridley Police 
Officers Association and the Gridley City Council 

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the City Council accept the new Memorandum of Understanding 
(MOU) between the City and the Gridley Police Officers Association (GPOA) by adoption of Resolution 
No. 2019-R-023. 
 
Background 
The City’s current MOU with GPOA expired on June 30, 2019.  The City’s negotiating team, including the 
Police Chief, Council representatives, and the Administrator and GPOA conducted multiple negotiating 
sessions regarding a successor agreement and signed a tentative agreement September 20, 2019.  The 
proposed MOU is a three-year contract and contains the following notable changes from the prior 
agreement:  modest compensation adjustments of 3% effective July 1, 2019, 2% effective July 1, 2020, 
and 2% effective July 1, 2021, and a one-time no cost addition of 32 hours of non-cost leave to be used 
between January 1, 2020 and December 31, 2020.   The GPOA traded a floating holiday for Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day and increased Step 6 by 2.5%.  The remaining substantive provisions of the current 
MOU remain unchanged. The City has received notice that the GPOA ratified the agreement at a level 
consistent with City Council provided authorization. 
 
Fiscal Impact 
The wages changes and financial impacts for the IBEW, POA, and MMCU are described below.  Funds are 
available for all three groups.  
 

Council Authorized Limit 
Funds 
Electric 
Water 
Sewer 
General Fund and Misc. 
Total 

 
FY 20 Year #1 (3%) 
$45,978  
$14,779  
$14,185  
$128,292  
$203,233.74  

FY 21 Year (3% IBEW) 
FY 21 Year (2% POA) 
$47,356.94  
$15,222.61  
$14,610.60  
$88,093.74  
$165,283.88  

 
FY 22 Year #3 (2%) 
$32,518.43  
$10,452.86  
$10,032.61  
$89,855.61  
$142,859.51  

 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals  
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters. 
 
Attachment - Resolution No. 2019-R-023 with Attachments 

 

 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY APPROVING THE MEMORANDUM 
OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GRIDLEY POLICE OFFICERS’ ASSOCIATION (GPOA) AND THE 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-023 

WHEREAS, negotiations between the City Council of the City of Gridley and representatives of the 

GPOA have been conducted regarding wages, hours, and working conditions for certain designated 
employees of the City of Gridley which negotiations have culminated in the preparation of the 
Memorandum of Understanding, a copy of which is attached hereto, marked Attachment “A” and 
incorporated herein; 
 

WHEREAS, the GPOA has ratified the Memorandum of Understanding; and,  

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to clarify and affirm the existing benefits for current employees.  

NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby resolved by the City Council of the City of Gridley as follows: 

1.  The Memorandum of Understanding (Attachment “A”) between the City of Gridley and the 

 

GPOA is hereby approved 
  

         

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced passed and adopted by the City 

Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019, by the following 
vote: 
 

AYES: 

 

     COUNCIL MEMBERS              

NOES:                       COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ABSENT:    
 
ABSTAIN:  

     COUNCIL MEMBERS            

     COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ATTEST:  

 

 

 

___________________________ 
 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

__________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

Attachment A 

 

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 

City of Gridley 

& 

Gridley Police Officers Association 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 July 1, 2019 – June 30, 2022 
 
October 7, 2019 
Resolution No. 2019-R-023 

  

THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, made and entered into this 1st day of July 1, 2019, by and 
between the designated representatives of  the CITY OF GRIDLEY (a public agency as defined in Section 
3501 (c) of Chapter 10 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California), 
hereinafter referred to as the "CITY", and the designated representatives of the GRIDLEY POLICE 
OFFICERS' ASSOCIATION (a recognized employee organization as defined in Section 3501 (b) Chapter 10 
of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code of the State of California), hereinafter referred to as 
ASSOCIATION or GPOA.  In this document the terms GRILDEY POLICE DEPARTMENT and GRIDLEY-BIGGS 
POLICE DEPARTMENT (during the term of the contract with the City of Biggs) shall hereinafter be 
referred to as “DEPARTMENT.” 

WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to facilitate the peaceful adjustment of differences that may from 
time to time arise between them, to promote harmony and efficiency to the end that the CITY, 
ASSOCIATION and the general public may benefit there from, and to establish fair and equitable wages, 
hours and working conditions for certain hereinafter designated employees of CITY. 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto do agree as follows: 
 
TITLE 1.  PREAMBLE 
 
1.1 
The parties acknowledge the provisions of Chapter 10 (Section 3500, et. seq.) of Division 4 of Title 1 of 
the Government Code of the State of California. 

Principles 

 
Non-Discrimination 

1.2 
It is the policy of the CITY and ASSOCIATION not to, and neither party will interfere with, intimidate, 
restrain, coerce or discriminate against any employee because of race, creed, sex, color or national 
origin. 

 
City - Association Relations 

1.3 
This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to promote, and shall be so construed and interpreted 
as to carry out the following general purposes.  The CITY and ASSOCIATION agree to promote 
harmonious relations between the parties and other employee groups; establish and maintain an 
orderly bargaining procedure; work to provide the best possible service for the general public; prompt 
and fair disposition of all grievances and disputes; and adhere to this Agreement. 

 
Rights of Employees 

1.4 
Employees have the right to organize or join employee organizations of their own choice for the purpose 
of representation on all matters of employer-employee relations.  Employees are free to join or not to 
join an employee organization and shall have the right to refuse to join or participate in the activities of 
employee organizations.  Membership or non-membership in an employee organization is not a 
condition of employment and the employee will not be granted preferential treatment nor will he/she 
be withheld for equitable treatment because of either membership or non-membership in such an 
organization.  Each employee has the right to represent himself individually in his employment relations 
with the CITY.  Employees shall not have the right to strike or to recognize a picket line of a labor 
organization while in the course of the performance of their official duties. 

 

 

Page | 1 

 

 

GPOA 

City Rights 

1.5 
CITY retains, solely and exclusively, all the rights, powers and authority exercised or held prior to the 
execution of this Memorandum of Understanding, except as expressly limited by law or this 
Memorandum of Understanding.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the rights, powers, 
and authority retained solely and exclusively by CITY include, but are not limited to, the following: To 
manage and direct its business and personnel; to manage, control and determine the mission of its 
departments, building facilities, and operations; to direct the work force; to hire, transfer, promote, and 
maintain the discipline and efficiency of its employees; to establish work standards, schedules of 
operation and reasonable work load; to specify or assign work requirements; to schedule working hours 
and shifts; to determine the type and scope of work to be performed by CITY's employees and the 
services to be provided; to classify positions; to determine the methods, processes, means and places of 
providing services. 

 
Section Titles 

Recognition  

1.6 
Section Titles in this Agreement are for identification purposes only, and are not to be used for the 
purpose of interpreting either the intent or the meaning of the language of any section. 
 
TITLE 2.  RECOGNITION 
 
2.1 
The CITY recognizes the Gridley Police Officers' Association, hereinafter referred to as the ASSOCIATION, 
as the exclusive representative of those employees of the CITY except management or confidential in 
the DEPARTMENT, consisting of the classifications, Police Sergeant, BINTF Detective, Detective, Police 
Officer, Public Safety Dispatch and Records Supervisor, Public Safety Dispatcher, and Animal Control 
Officer.  The provisions of this Memorandum of Understanding, hereinafter set forth, shall apply only to 
those employees of the CITY of Gridley for whom ASSOCIATION is the established exclusive 
representative. 

 
Applicability 

2.2 
The provisions of this Agreement shall be limited to their application to employees of CITY in the 
bargaining unit described in Section 2.1.  Wherever the words "employee" and "employees" are used in 
this Agreement, they shall, unless otherwise noted, be construed to refer only to the employees 
described in Section 2.1 for whom ASSOCIATION is the exclusive bargaining representative.  The 
respective obligations of the parties herein shall be operative only insofar as ASSOCIATION acts in the 
capacity of exclusive bargaining representative of said employees. 

 
Representation 

2.3 
Before any action is taken which could result in possible discharge or other disciplinary action against an 
employee, the CITY shall provide a written, formal charge, which states: 

•  The charge; 
•  The reason for the charge; 
•  The proposed action to be taken; 
•  A copy of all materials upon which the charge is based, to the extent that such materials are 

currently available to the CITY; 

•  A statement of rights to ASSOCIATION representation; 
•  A statement of rights to respond. 

 

GPOA 

 
Page | 2 

 

Contract Services 

Any employee, at his request, shall be permitted representation by an ASSOCIATION representative. The 
foregoing shall apply to disciplinary actions and hearings, providing there is no unreasonable delay in 
obtaining representation. 
 
2.4 
In the event that the CITY negotiates a contract to provide law enforcement services to another public 
agency, and such contract requires the CITY to hire additional law enforcement personnel, the CITY and 
ASSOCIATION agree to meet and consult concerning possible modifications to Section 2.1 affecting 
personnel providing contract services. 
 
TITLE 3.  ASSOCIATION SECURITY 
 
3.1 
The CITY shall make monthly payroll deductions of ASSOCIATION dues from the earning of each 
individual employee who is a member of the ASSOCIATION, and who individually and voluntarily 
authorizes such deductions in writing in accordance with the provisions of Section 1157.3 of the 
Government Code of the State of California. 

Check off Dues 

 

 

Monthly payroll deductions shall be made and a check for the total deductions shall be submitted to the 
ASSOCIATION, within five (5) working days of the date the dues are withheld from the employee's check.  
The CITY shall notify ASSOCIATION each month at the time of the dues transmittal to ASSOCIATION of 
any changes since the previous dues transmittal and the reasons therefore. 
 
3.2 
The CITY shall provide all new employees with ASSOCIATION Membership application forms, payroll 
deduction authorization forms, and a copy of this Memorandum of Understanding on or before the first 
day of employment.  Such materials will be furnished to the CITY, by the ASSOCIATION. 

Association Information 

Association Orientation 

TITLE 4.  ASSOCIATION ACTIVITY 
 
4.1 
The CITY shall give the ASSOCIATION one (1) hour with all new employees for the purpose of explaining 
CITY policies, ASSOCIATION Contract orientation, and enrollment into the ASSOCIATION.  This time shall 
be compensated for by the CITY and shall be done within five (5) days following the date of hire. 
 
4.2 
On or before January 31st of each year, CITY shall furnish ASSOCIATION with a list showing the name of 
individual, home address, home telephone number, employment date, and classification of each Police 
Department employee, and date vacancy filled. 

Lists 

 
Non-Discrimination 

4.3 
Neither the CITY, nor the ASSOCIATION, shall interfere with, intimidate, restrain, coerce, or discriminate 
against any employee because of his membership, or non-membership, in ASSOCIATION or his activity 
on behalf of ASSOCIATION. 

 
Representatives of Association 

4.4 
The ASSOCIATION's representatives shall be permitted by the CITY to transact ASSOCIATION business on 

Page | 3 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 

the premises of the CITY during working hours.  Such time shall not interfere with the current work in 
progress. 
 

ASSOCIATION members shall only transact ASSOCIATION business on the premises of the CITY with 
approval of the appropriate Supervisor, whose permission shall not be unreasonably denied. 

 

 
Bulletin Boards 

Negotiations 

4.5 
The CITY agrees to provide adequate space on the bulletin boards, in employee assembly areas, for 
dissemination of ASSOCIATION information to its members. 
 
4.6 
Three (3) ASSOCIATION members shall be allowed time off to meet with CITY to negotiate changes in 
the Memorandum of Understanding, retirement plan, or new conditions not covered in the Agreement.  
This time off shall be compensated for by the CITY at the normal rate of pay. 
            
TITLE 5.  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
 
5.1 
It is the intent of both the ASSOCIATION and the CITY that the processing of disputes through the 
Grievance Procedure will give meaning and content to the Memorandum of Understanding (M.O.U.) 
through a concise procedure for resolution of disputes.  It is understood and agreed that whenever a 
provision in this Title refers to an employee filing a grievance, the ASSOCIATION may file such grievance, 
either on the employee's behalf or on behalf of the ASSOCIATION.  In such an event, the processing of 
the grievance shall comply with all other provisions of this grievance procedure Title.  It is therefore the 
stated purpose of this procedure to: 

Statement of Intent – Notice 

•  Avoid grievances and misunderstandings 
•  Orally handle as many grievances as possible within the framework of this Agreement 
•  Expeditiously investigate and quickly dispose of such grievances or problems 
 

The ASSOCIATION and the CITY agree that they will continue to work within the framework of the 
Agreement to further the above-stated objectives.  Should the above fail to resolve a grievance, the 
following steps shall be utilized to resolve the dispute between the parties.  Disputes involving the 
following subjects shall be determined by the Grievance Procedure established herein: 

• 

Interpretation or application of any of the terms of this Agreement, including Exhibits 
thereto, Letters of Agreement, informal interpretations and clarifications executed by the 
ASSOCIATION and the CITY. 

•  Disputes as to whether a matter is a proper subject for the Grievance Procedure. 

 
Objections or disputes regarding discharge, demotions, or suspensions of any employee are not proper 
subjects to be determined by the grievance procedure established in Title 5 of this Memorandum of 
Understanding, but are proper subjects under Title 6 of this Memorandum. 
 
5.2 
The initial Step in the adjustment of a grievance shall be the presentation of a written grievance to the 
grievant’s supervisor setting forth (1) the action complained of, (2) the rule, procedure or other policy 
claimed to have been violated or not followed by the action, and (3) the employee's proposed solution, 
followed by a discussion between the ASSOCIATION president and the immediate Supervisor directly 

Step One:  Association President 

Page | 4 

 

 

GPOA 

involved, or Department Head as applicable, who shall answer within five (5) working days.  This Step 
shall be started within fifteen (15) working days of the date of the action complained of, or the date the 
grievant became aware of the incident, which is the basis for the grievance. 

 
Step Two: Department Head 

5.3 
If a grievance is not resolved in the initial Step, the Second Step shall be a discussion between either the 
ASSOCIATION president, or the ASSOCIATION representative, and the Department Head who shall 
answer within ten (10) working days. This Step shall be taken within ten (10) working days of the date of 
the immediate Supervisor's answer in Step One. 

 
Step Three:  City Administrator 

5.4 
If a grievance is not resolved in the Second Step, the Third Step shall be presentation of the grievance, in 
writing, by the ASSOCIATION or its representative to the CITY Administrator who shall answer, in writing, 
within ten (10) working days.  The Third Step shall be taken within ten (10) working days of the date of 
the answer in Step Two. 

 
Step Four:  City Council 

5.5 
If a grievance is not resolved in the Third Step, the Fourth Step shall be the presentation of the grievance 
within ten (10) working days by the ASSOCIATION Business Representative to the City Council.  The City 
Council shall meet within fourteen (14) working days of the request, take evidence and reach a majority 
decision.  A majority decision of the quorum of the City Council at such hearing would be binding upon 
both parties.  In considering any grievance brought before the City Council, the City Council may conduct 
such additional investigation and take such additional evidence as it may desire, in the Council's sole 
discretion. 

 
 Grievance Processing 

5.6 
 Grievances shall be processed from one step to the next within the time limit prescribed in each of the 
steps. Time limits may be extended by mutual agreement. Any grievance for which a disposition is not 
made at any step within the time limit prescribed, or any extension which may be agreed to, may be 
referred to the next step in the grievance procedure. Time limits shall run from the date when time for 
disposition expired.  

 
Enabler Clause 

5.7 
Notwithstanding the aforementioned procedure, any individual employee shall have the right to present 
grievances to the CITY and to have such grievances adjusted without the intervention of ASSOCIATION, 
provided that the adjustment shall not be inconsistent with this Memorandum of Understanding, and 
provided, further, the ASSOCIATION or its representative shall be given an opportunity to be present at 
such adjustment, as an observer only. 

Citizen Complaints 

TITLE 6.  DISCIPLINARY AND COMPLAINT PROCESS 
 
6.1 
The CITY and the ASSOCIATION agree that it is in the interest of the CITY, citizens of the CITY of Gridley, 
and members of the ASSOCIATION that citizens' complaints be investigated promptly and resolved with 
all due dispatch.  In order to accomplish prompt resolution of citizens' complaints, it is agreed that: 

•  All complaints shall be in writing on a form provided by the Department whenever possible.  All 

complaints shall be investigated, whether written or not. 

Page | 5 

 

 

GPOA 

 

•  Findings will be made on citizen complaints within sixty (60) days of the date the complaint is 

•  The Chief of Police will take such actions as are within his power within said Sixty (60) days 

received.  

whenever possible. 
 
Pre-Disciplinary Procedures 

6.2 
All pre-disciplinary procedures shall be conducted in accordance with Skelly vs. State Personnel Board 
and Sections 3300-3311 of the California Government Code known as the "Public Safety Officers 
Procedural Bill of Rights" and the CITY of Gridley Personnel Rules. 

 
Right of Appeal 

 

6.3 
Any regular employee who has completed his initial probationary period shall have the right to appeal a 
suspension, demotion, or other discipline imposed on that employee to the City Council. 

Method of Appeal 
A regular employee may file a written notice within seven (7) calendar days, starting from the date of 
receipt of a decision by the Department Head/City Administrator. 
 
The appeal shall be addressed to the City Council and filed with the City Clerk.  The appeal shall set forth 
the matter appealed from, set forth a statement of the action desired by the appellant and list the 
reasons for the desired actions.  Within seven (7) calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the City Clerk 
shall inform each member of the City Council, the City Administrator and all other persons named or 
affected by the appeal. 

Notice of Hearing 
When an appeal has been filed, a date shall be set for a hearing on the appeal.  The date for the hearing 
shall not be less than ten (10) calendar days from the date of filing of the appeal.  The City Clerk shall 
notify all interested parties of the date, time and place of the hearing. 

Hearing (Review of Record) 
When an appeal has been filed, the City Council shall review all evidence previously considered and 
make a final determination of the issue.  A new hearing will be held if it is determined that evidence was 
improperly excluded, or there was a deprivation of due process rights in which case there will be a 
hearing de novo.  Both parties will be allowed to present a brief presentation concerning their 
interpretation of the record.  Hearings shall be closed, unless the appellant files a written request for an 
open hearing. 

 

 

Findings 
The City Council, within fifteen (15) calendar days after said hearing, shall make a finding.  The City 
Council may: 

follow the recommendations of the City Administrator; or 
reinstate the employee; or 

• 
• 
•  order any disciplinary action which it judges to be appropriate   based on the evidence; or 
• 
• 

re-hear the matter as provided in Title 6; or 
sustain the original discipline action 
 

The final finding of the City Council shall be the final administrative step in the disciplinary appeal 

Page | 6 

 

 

GPOA 

      

 

      

     

     

     

 

 

 

Prevention of Accidents 

process. 
 
Extension of Time 
Any time limit contained in this title may be extended by mutual agreement of the employee and the 
City Administrator. 
 
TITLE 7.  SAFETY 
 
7.1 
The CITY desires to maintain a safe place of employment and to that end the CITY shall make all 
reasonable provisions necessary for the safety of employees in the performance of their work.  The CITY 
and the ASSOCIATION shall cooperate in promoting the realization of the responsibility of the individual 
employee and Supervisor with regard to the prevention of accidents, and to that end both parties agree 
to comply with all State and Federal Health and Safety Laws, rules and resolutions.  In the event any 
applicable State or Federal Health or Safety rules are revised or adopted that conflict with current rules, 
such rule shall be revised. 
 
7.2 
The CITY agrees to provide, as needed, the following protective equipment to peace officers, as defined 
in Section 830.1 and 830.2 of the Penal Code: 

Safety Equipment 

    Rain Gear                       
    Helmet and Face shield      
    Flashlight                       
    Complete Leather Gear       
    Handcuffs 
 

 

 

 
 

 
 

Ballistic Vest 
Baton 
 
Firearm 
Chemical Agent and Holder 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) 

Taser and Associated 
 Equipment 

  

The standards for the above equipment provided by the CITY shall be set by the CITY.  Each employee 
shall be issued one of each of the above items.  In event of the employee’s termination of employment, 
the items shall be returned to the City in good condition, with normal wear and tear expected.  In the 
event that any CITY issued equipment is damaged during the course of employment and in the normal 
performance of the employee's duties, it shall be replaced upon the employee returning the damaged 
equipment to the CITY, with sufficient explanation of the cause of the damage.  If equipment is not 
returned as set forth above, the employee shall pay the CITY the cost of the replacement item. 

Members required to carry a firearm may provide their own firearm.  Such firearm shall comply with 
standards set by the CITY.  CITY shall provide appropriate ammunition in a reasonable amount. 

 

The BINTF Detective may submit a budget request each year for safety or specialized equipment, not 
otherwise listed above.  The Police Chief may authorize the purchase of such equipment that, in his 
opinion, is necessary for this assignment.  This may include the cost of cellular phone service that 
exceeds the amount of the CITY payment authorized in Section 18.10. 
 
7.3 
The CITY shall pay a uniform allowance to the following ASSOCIATION members: Police Sergeant, Police 
Officer, Detective, Public Safety Dispatch Supervisor, Public Safety Dispatcher, and Animal Control 
Officer.  The amount of the allowance shall be Nine hundred nineteen dollars ($919) per year payable in 

Uniforms 

Page | 7 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 

advance annually with the first payroll cycle in July.   The allowance is for application toward the cost of 
uniforms and uniform and equipment maintenance expenses and for replacement of uniforms due to 
normal wear.  The uniform color shall be as directed by uniform standards in the policy manual. 

The uniform allowance shall be adjusted annually to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index (Urban 
Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, U.S. City Average) The adjustment will be effective on July 1 of each 
year based upon the most recent 12-month data reported each June (May to May data).  These 
adjustments will be rounded to the nearest dollar.   

Employees hired during the term of this MOU will be provided one complete set of uniforms and related 
required equipment as per the policy manual.  The employee would receive a pro-rata amount of the 
annual allowance (in full monthly units) on the first regular payroll dated following their hiring date.  For 
example, if an employee is hired on November 15, that employee would receive a uniform and, at the 
first payroll cycle following employment, the employee would receive 7/12 of the annual uniform 
allowance for the remainder of the fiscal year. 
 
Employees who separate during the term of this MOU may be required to return a portion of the 
uniform allowance under the following circumstances: 

• 

If the employee separates between July 1 and December 31, one-half (½) of the amount 
paid as the allowance in the first payroll cycle in July will be repaid to the City. 

•  No return of the annual uniform allowance would be required if the employee separates 

between January 1 and June 30.  

        

TITLE 8.  EMPLOYEE STATUS 
 
8.1 
Employees will be designated as Regular, Probationary or Temporary depending upon the purpose for 
which they were hired and their length of continuous service with the CITY. 

Employee Designation 

 
Employee Defined 

8.2 
A regular employee is defined as an employee who has satisfactorily completed a twelve (12) month 
probationary period of employment with the CITY, with the exception of employees in the classifications 
of Police Sergeant and Police Officer who shall have completed an eighteen (18) month probationary 
period.  All promotional appointments shall be subject to a 12-month probationary period. 

 
Probationary Employee 

8.3 
A probationary employee is defined as an employee hired for a position that has been regularly 
established and is of indeterminate duration.  A probationary employee will receive not less than the 
minimum rate for the job and will be eligible to accrue sick leave, holiday pay, vacation leave, insurance 
coverage or items of a similar nature in accordance with personnel rules.  Upon satisfactory completion 
of the probationary service with the CITY, a probationary employee will be given the status of a regular 
employee.  A probationary employee may be terminated at any time during the probationary period, 
without cause, and the probationary employee shall have no right to appeal the termination. 

 
Temporary Employee 

8.4 
A temporary employee is defined as an employee hired by the day for occasional or seasonal work for a 
period not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five (125) days, or 1,000 hours per fiscal year.  A 

Page | 8 

 

 

GPOA 

temporary employee will receive not less than the minimum rate for the job but will not be eligible for 
sick leave pay, holiday pay, vacation pay, insurance coverage, retirement benefits or items of a similar 
nature.  Upon completion of one-hundred twenty-five (125) days, or 1,000 hours, of continuous service 
with the CITY, within a single fiscal year, a temporary employee will be given the status of probationary 
employee.  If the temporary employee's continuous service is interrupted at any time, he/she will lose 
the accumulation of hours toward the 1000-hour goal and would not be eligible to receive CITY benefits 
nor would enter into Probationary Status. 

 
Regular Part-Time Employee 

8.5 
An employee appointed to fill, on a less than full-time basis, a budgeted position shown in the salary 
resolution.  Any employee hired into a regular part-time position shall be provided all benefits based on 
a pro-rata basis as compared to the normal work hours for their classification, with the exception of 
Medical and Dental, which shall be available to the employee, with the CITY and the employee equally 
share the cost. 
 
TITLE 9.  WAGES AND CLASSIFICATIONS 
 
9.1  Wages 
Employees shall be paid the wages established for their classifications. 

 

9.2 
Wages shall be paid on a bi-weekly basis. Upon request, the City Administrator may approve advances 
on wages for up to one pay period. 

9.3  Wage Schedule 
Attached hereto and made a part hereof is Exhibit A, titled "Gridley Police Officers Association Salary 
Schedule" which shall be effective from July 1, 2019, through June 30, 2022. The schedule is based upon 
the following adjustments:  Effective July 1, 2019 GPOA employees will receive a 3% increase.   Effective 
July 1, 2020 GPOA employees will receive a 2% increase.  Effective July 1, 2021 GPOA employees will 
receive a 2% increase. 

Financial Ability to Meet Future MOU Commitments  
It is mutually agreed that the City of Gridley may have limited financial ability to fund the 
implementation of the salary increases for fiscal years 2019-2022; such ability is entirely dependent 
upon the economic conditions that prevail in the community, and legislative actions of the State of 
California.  The City Administrator and representatives of the GPOA will meet each year, after the 
adoption of the state budget, to review the status of revenue forecasts associated with property taxes 
estimates developed by the Butte County Auditor-Controller, sales taxes forecast information generated 
by the State Board of Equalization, and Motor Vehicle In-lieu reimbursement allocations issued by the 
State Controller.  
 
Any legislative changes in the allocation formulas used for distributing property taxes, sales taxes or 
motor vehicle in-lieu fees to the City, that decreases the amount of such revenues received by the City, 
shall result in the suspension of any salary adjustments associated with the salary increases addressed 
herein.  Further, in the event sales tax receipts received are less than the amount set forth in the 
adopted budget, such event shall also result in the suspension of any salary adjustments associated with 
the salary increases referenced in this Memorandum of Understanding.  The City will meet with the 

Page | 9 

 

 

GPOA 

 
Pay Day 

 

 

GPOA as soon as practical to discuss any such suspension and whether such suspension of salary 
increases shall become permanent.  In the event that there are delays in the adoption of the State 
Budget, any scheduled salary adjustments resulting from the classification and salary study referenced 
in this Memorandum of Understanding may be implemented retroactively to the first full pay period in 
July, except as otherwise provided here. 

 
Longevity Pay 

9.4 
The following longevity pay applies to all full-time employees within the bargaining unit: 

•  Effective with an employee's 10th consecutive year of service, one percent (1%) of the 

employee’s gross salary shall be added to that employee’s base salary. 

•  Effective with an employee’s 15th consecutive year of service, an additional one percent (1%) of 
the employee’s gross salary shall be added to that employee's base salary for total longevity pay 
of two percent (2%). 

•  Effective with an employee’s 20th consecutive year of service, an additional one percent (1%) of 
the employee’s gross salary shall be added to that employee’s base salary for a total longevity 
pay of three (3%). 

 

Longevity pay will be effective at the beginning of the month following the applicable anniversary date. 

 

Field Training Officer (FTO) Pay 

9.5 
Effective July 1, 2011 individuals assigned as Field Training Officers (FTOs) shall receive one hour of base 
salary per day (calculated at overtime at a rate not to exceed one and one half (1.5) times the base).  
FTO pay is in recognition of the additional supervisory time (will routinely require the FTO to work one-
hour overtime) to complete the additional administrative documentation. 

Educational Incentive 

9.6 
Effective July 1, 2011 the incentive pay percentages listed below shall be converted to an equivalent flat 
dollar amount plus $50 provided the salary increase specified for the first pay period in July 2011 is 
included in the conversion, and the following adjustments are included in the following flat dollar 
amounts: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The degrees must be issued by a California Community College, State University or a private educational 
institution approved by the Police Chief. 

Associates Arts Degree   
Bachelor’s Degree 
 
 
Master’s Degree 

1% 
2.5% 
5% 

 

 
Tuition Reimbursement 

 

9.7 
Positions covered by this agreement shall be eligible to participate in the Tuition Reimbursement 
program for law enforcement related courses.  Advance approval for the course and institution by the 
Police Chief is required.  Courses must be taken outside of regular work hours.  The reimbursement may 
apply to fees and books not to exceed $500 per year.  Reimbursement is to be made following 
satisfactory completion of the class with a grade of 2.0 or above on a 4-point scale. 

 

 

 
 
 

Page | 10 

 

 

GPOA 

TITLE 10.  WORK PERIODS/SHIFT SCHEDULING 
 
10.1   Work Period 
The work period shall consist of a seven-day work period commencing on Sunday at 12 O’clock 
midnight, and ending the following Saturday at 12 O’clock midnight.  For the purposes of the FLSA and 
overtime, employees are eligible for overtime for work in excess of forty hours in a work period as 
provided by the Fair Labor Standards Act.  When the use of paid time such as vacation or sick leave is 
used under this schedule, employee shall use 10-hour increments when on a ten-hour work schedule. 

10.2  Work Shifts/Bidding 
Shifts will be picked by departmental seniority.  An officer cannot pick or stay on a shift with weekends 
off, for more than six months per year.  Shift rotation will be every three months. 

Shift Hours 

The Police Chief has the right to assign officers to the schedule to best fulfill the needs of the 
Department, for remedial training and/or for disciplinary reasons. The Police Chief may take into 
consideration training, experience and other factors necessary to provide appropriate staffing for public 
safety.     
 
10.3 
The standard workweek for employees in the classification of Dispatcher/Records Technician shall be 80 
hours per two weeks utilizing 12-hour shifts.  The Animal Control Officer shall be forty (40) hours per 
week, which shall consist of five (5) consecutive workdays and two (2) consecutive days off.  A workday 
for the employees covered by this paragraph shall consist of either twelve (12) or eight (8) consecutive 
hours within which is included a reasonable lunch period. 
 
The standard workweek for employees in the classifications of Police Officer, Detective and Police 
Sergeant shall be the 4/10work schedule with the work period for a 4/10 shift being four (4) ten (10) 
hour work days during a work period. 
 
Except in a declared City emergency, it is agreed that any required change in the days or hours of regular 
work schedule of an employee covered by this agreement shall entitle affected employee to be paid 
time and one-half for the first the first affected shift only unless the CITY has given the employee seven 
(7) days’ notice.   
 
Employees may or may not receive consecutive days off during a week in which employees rotate shifts 
on a department-wide basis.  However, such shift rotation shall be no more than four (4) times yearly, 
unless otherwise agreed upon by the ASSOCIATION and the CITY.  At rotation, no employee shall be 
required to work two (2) shifts with less than eight (8) hours between shifts.  
 
10.4  Overtime Defined 
Overtime is defined as time worked in excess of the employee's applicable work period.     
Overtime shall be computed to the nearest one-quarter hour.  Overtime shall be authorized, in advance, 
by the immediate Supervisor, Department Head or City Administrator. 

10.5  Overtime Compensation 
Overtime compensation shall be paid/earned at a rate equivalent to one and one-half (1-1/2) times the 
individual employee's straight time rate of pay.   

Page | 11 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 

 

Court Overtime 

10.6 
Overtime compensation shall be paid for employees required to appear in court or at an official hearing, 
in connection with their duties, other than during their normal workday.  The minimum time for which 
overtime shall be paid under this Section is three (3) hours on a non-workday and two (2) hours on a 
workday. 
 

10.7     Court Overtime (Day Off) 
In the event that an individual is subpoenaed to court to testify on his or her day off, special provisions 
may apply. Normal court appearances are subject to regular overtime provisions.  In the event that a 
court appearance is cancelled after 1700 hours on the previous day, the individual is entitled to two 
hours of overtime pay, even if no appearance is required. 

 
Call Back/Vacation Call Out 

10.8 
Any employee who is required to return to work after completion of a shift and after having left work, 
prior to the beginning of the next shift, or on a day off, shall receive overtime compensation.  The 
minimum time for which overtime shall be paid under this Section is three (3) hours on a non-workday 
and two (2) hours on a workday. 
 
TITLE 11.  PROMOTION AND TRANSFER 
 
11.1 
When new jobs or additional jobs are created, or vacancies, other than temporary vacancies occur, 
which the CITY intends to fill, the CITY shall post vacancy notices on all bulletin boards and a copy shall 
be provided to the ASSOCIATION.  Vacancy notices shall be posted for a period of five (5) working days, 
and shall set forth the date of the posting the classification and location of the job, its duties, and 
qualifications required and the rate of pay.  Regular employees may submit applications on such jobs to 
the CITY office and the CITY shall not consider any applications submitted or postmarked more than five 
(5) working days from the date that the five (5) day posting period expired.  In filling jobs, CITY shall give 
preferential consideration to employees in the order of their CITY seniority. 

Posting Vacancies 

 
Bypass for Lack of Qualifications 

11.2 
Notwithstanding Title 11.1, the CITY need not consider the bid of any employee who does not possess 
the knowledge, skill, efficiency, attitude, adaptability, ability to work with others and physical ability 
required for the job on which the bid is made.  The CITY shall be the sole judge of the qualifications.  
When the CITY intends to appoint an employee to a vacancy in preference to an employee with greater 
seniority as provided in 11.1, the CITY shall notify the ASSOCIATION of its intent prior to such 
appointments. 

 
Filling Vacancy 

11.3 
Vacant positions within the bargaining unit shall be filled within 90 days of the created vacancy unless it 
is impossible, impractical or futile to do so.  This shall not, in any way, interfere with CITY's rights to 
determine staffing levels or other rights set forth in Section 1.5. 
 
TITLE 12.  DEMOTION AND LAYOFF 
 
12.1  Notice 
When it becomes necessary for the CITY to lay off probationary regular employees, the CITY shall give 

Page | 12 

 

 

GPOA 

 

employees involved as much notice as possible, but in no event will such employees receive less than 
two (2) weeks’ notice of layoff.  Where temporary employees are to be laid off, no notice of layoff need 
be given. 
 
Layoff 

12.2 
When it becomes necessary to reduce the work force, layoffs shall be in reverse order of seniority, and 
senior employees shall be retained, provided they have necessary skill and ability to perform the 
required work. 

Eligibility 

TITLE 13.  LEAVE OF ABSENCE 
 
13.1 
"Leave of Absence" may be granted to regular employees by the CITY Administrator, or his duly 
authorized representative, for urgent and substantial reasons, providing that adequate arrangements 
can be made to take care of the employee’s duties without undue interference with the normal routine 
of work.  All applications for "Leave of Absence" shall be made in writing except when the employee is 
unable to do so. 

 
Periods of Leave 

13.2 
The CITY Administrator may grant a "Leave of Absence" without pay to a regular employee for a period 
not in excess of ninety (90) days.  The City Council may grant an additional "Leave of Absence" without 
pay to such employee if his personal circumstances and his service to the CITY warrant the granting 
thereof. 
 
Status 

13.3 
An employee status as a regular employee will not be impaired by such a "Leave of Absence" and his 
seniority shall accrue.  During the period of a "Leave of Absence", an employee's position and tour of 
duty will only be filled on a temporary basis. 

 
Commence and End 

13.4 
A "Leave of Absence" will commence on and include the first workday on which the employee is absent 
and terminate with, and includes the workday preceding the day the employee returns to work.  The 
conditions under which an employee will be restored to employment on the termination of "Leave of 
Absence" shall be clearly stated by the CITY on the form on which application for the leave is made. 

 
Reinstatement  

13.5 
Upon an employee's return to work after a "Leave of Absence", he will be reinstated to his former 
position and working conditions, except when there has been a reduction of forces or the position has 
been eliminated during said leave, he will be returned to the position he would have been in had he not 
been on a "Leave of Absence". 

 
Termination of Service 

13.6 
If an employee fails to return to work on the first working day after the expiration of this "Leave of 
Absence", he will be deemed to have resigned from employment with the CITY and his employment will 
terminate provided, however, that the CITY Administrator may, for good cause shown, authorize an 
additional five (5) days extension of the “Leave of Absence” provided that application for such extension 
is made prior to the expiration of his "Leave of Absence". 

Page | 13 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 

 

 

City "Leave of Absence" 

Any employee who accepts gainful employment while on "Leave of Absence" terminates his 
employment, unless such employment is approved by the CITY. 
 
13.7 
Members of ASSOCIATION who are temporarily or permanently appointed to positions within the CITY, 
but outside the jurisdiction of the ASSOCIATION, shall at their request, receive "Leaves of Absence" for 
periods not to exceed one (1) year.  An employee who is granted such a "Leave of Absence" shall 
continue to accrue seniority and retain the right to return to his previous classification.  However, should 
the employee successfully seek employment within the jurisdiction of the ASSOCIATION after his "leave" 
expires, he shall suffer loss of seniority for job bidding purposes only.  He shall work within the 
jurisdiction of ASSOCIATION for a period equal to the time he was outside of the ASSOCIATION 
jurisdiction to receive his job bidding seniority. 

13.8  Military "Leave of Absence" 
An employee who leaves his employment with the CITY to enter the Military service or other service, 
where his rights are protected by Federal and State Law, shall be granted a "Leave of Absence" under 
the provision of Section 13.1 to 13.6, inclusive. Upon qualifying for re-employment under any such law, 
and being re-employed, he will be granted a further retroactive "Leave of Absence" to cover the balance 
of his absence. 

13.9  National Guard 
An employee attached to the National Guard or Military Reserves, who is required to participate in the 
annual training encampment, reserve meetings, and/or is called to active duty, shall be so compensated 
up to thirty (30) calendar days and shall be given up to one hundred eighty (180) days of "Leave of 
Absence", provided the employee has at least one (1) year of service.  Employees shall be placed on 
"Leave of Absence" only upon receipt of the Order to Duty. 
 
13.10  Funeral Leave 
A regular employee shall be granted time off with pay to attend to the funeral of a member of the 
immediate family.  The immediate family shall be limited to: employee’s spouse, parents, grandparents, 
children, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, father-in-law, and mother-in-law.  
Funeral leave shall consist of up to three (3) working days per occasion. In other cases, the CITY 
Administrator may approve paid funeral leave. 
 
Probationary employees who have not attained regular status shall be allowed time off with pay, as 
provided for above. 

 
Jury Duty 

13.11 
Employees called for jury duty, grand jury trial, or inquest shall be granted the necessary time off for this 
purpose under the following conditions:  Employees called for jury duty, grand jury trial, or inquest shall 
be compensated by the CITY for the difference between his regular wages and any compensation 
received as a juror.  Expenses and travel allowances which are not taxable and payment for jury duty on 
non-workdays will not be included in computing the remuneration received from the Court. 

13.12  Benefits While on Leave 
An employee on a "Leave of Absence", as provided herein, shall not accrue vacation or sick leave 

Page | 14 

 

 

GPOA 

benefits nor maintain group insurance coverage.  An employee may, however, at his option and 
expense, maintain his group insurance coverage providing the full monthly premium is received in the 
Finance Department of the CITY on or before the first day of the month for which the premium is 
intended.  Notwithstanding the above, however, if the “Leave of Absence” is a result of exhaustion of 
sick leave benefits, an employee's group insurance may be maintained for up to three (3) calendar 
months on the normal premium-sharing formula, providing the employee pays his share of the premium 
on a timely basis.   
 
13.13  Application 
This Title applies to any and all employees on "Leave of Absence" as of the effective date of this 
Agreement. 

13.14   Employee Obligation to Communicate with Employer While on Leave 
Employee shall have the obligation to reasonably communicate with the City when Employee 
is absent from work due to leave. Employee’s obligation to communicate during vacation leave shall be 
at Employee’s reasonable discretion, and shall not be a requirement subject to these provisions. At all 
other times and for all other types of leave, Employee shall be under a duty to return phone calls and 
other electronic communications from the City from time to time related to Employee’s leave status as 
well as to respond to the City’s questions concerning matters relevant to Employee’s job with the City. 
To the extent physically able to do so, Employee shall be obligated to return phone call promptly and 
within 24 hours if Employee is unable to respond to the telephone when the call is initially placed. As to 
other electronic communications, employee shall promptly respond within 24 hours (again, assuming 
Employee is physically able to do so). Additionally, Employee shall, to the extent physically able to do so, 
make themselves personally available to discuss with the City Employees job status and matters related 
thereto as well as to discuss matters relevant to and related to Employee’s job with the City. Employee 
shall report to their regular place of employment or such other location reasonably located within the 
City as the City may direct from time to time to meet with the City representatives. If Employee is 
required to physically present themselves, they shall be compensated for time spent during such 
meetings as if they were actually performing work for the City (even though the purpose of such 
meetings shall be for purposes of communication and not to perform work). Employee shall physically 
report for face-to-face communications with the City upon 72 hours or more notification of the City’s 
request for a meeting. Except for vacation leave, the Employee shall provide the City with a current 
telephone number and mailing address at all times while on leave. Employee’s failure to communicate 
with the City as described above shall be grounds for discipline up to and including termination. Should 
the employee not respond within 24 hours, the Employer shall first notify the GPOA representative of 
employee’s failure to respond.  Subsequent to City notification, the GPOA representative shall have a 
minimum of one-full regular work day in order to contact said employee in order to open lines of.  In the 
event that the representative is able to open communications between the employee within the one 
work-day timeframe, the Employer shall take no disciplinary actions against the employee regarding 
failure to communicate in reasonable and timely fashion. 
 
TITLE 14. SICK LEAVE 
 
14.1 
Employees shall earn sick leave at a rate of 8 hours per calendar month of service or pro-rata portion.  
There shall be no limit to the accrual of unused sick leave. 

Accumulation 

 

 

Page | 15 

 

 

GPOA 

 

Allowance 

14.2 
Sick leave shall be allowed for an absence due to a bona fide illness, off-duty injury, or confinement for 
medical treatment.  A Doctor's certificate, showing proof of illness, may be required by the CITY at any 
time as appropriate.  Any such certification shall be paid by the CITY. 

14.3  Workers' Compensation 
If an employee is injured on the job and receiving benefits under Workers' Compensation Act, he shall 
be allowed to use his unused leave benefits in an amount sufficient to provide wages equal to his salary 
as if he were normally employed, if the employee is not receiving his full wages under the provisions of 
Labor Code Section 4850; provided, however, that no uniform allowance will be given for any period of 
time off work where the employee is not required to wear the uniform.  This provision will cease when 
the employee's leave benefits are exhausted. 
                       
TITLE 15.  HOLIDAYS 
 
15.1  Holiday Entitlement 
Effective July 1, 2008 in lieu of compensation for the following holidays, employees may accrue 104 
hours of holiday time in a “Holiday Bank”. Such Holiday Bank hours shall be used or cashed out no later 
than June 30th of each year. Cash out requests must coincide with payroll check periods.  Any remaining 
balances shall be forfeited except when community emergencies prevent such use.  In that event, the 
City Council may restore such lost hours with an appropriate time limit. Employees who terminate City 
service shall be eligible for pay off of any accrued holiday bank hours. The City Administrator is 
authorized to approve exceptions to the holiday entitlement policy. 
 
Employees required to work one of the following holidays shall receive overtime at a rate equivalent to 
four (4) hours additional time at the individual employee's straight time rate of pay.   
The following holidays are observed by the City of Gridley for which all regular and benefited 
probationary employees will be entitled to hours in the “Holiday Bank:” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

New Year's Day  
Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
President's Day  
Memorial Day 
 
Independence Day 
Labor Day 
 
Thanksgiving Day 
Day after Thanksgiving 
Last Working Day before Christmas 
Christmas Day 
 
Last Working Day before New Year's Day 
Floating Holidays (2) (zero (0) for employees hired after July 1, 2011, effective July 1, 2019) 

January 1 
Third Monday in January 
Third Monday in February 
Last Monday in May 
July 4 
First Monday in September 
Designated Thursday in November 

December 25 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
TITLE 16.  VACATIONS 
 
16.1 
Each regular employee in the classified service shall be entitled to earn vacation as follows: 
 

Vacation Allowance 

Page | 16 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

Rate in Hours      
80 hours per year 
120 hours per year 
160 hours per year 
200 hours per year 

Years of Service  
0 through 5 years 
6 through 10 years 
11 through 20 years 
20+ years 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
Earned vacation is credited monthly at rates that are based upon length of continuous employment.   
Employees who exceed the maximum vacation accrual (for his or her length of employment) will be 
ineligible to earn additional vacation credit.  Monthly vacation accrual will resume after the accumulated 
balance is reduced below the maximum accrual. 
 
GPOA members shall receive an additional 32 hours of non-cost leave to be used between January 1, 
2020 and December 31, 2020. 

Max Accrual 
160 hours 
240 hours 
320 hours 
400 hours 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Sick Leave 

Unused Vacation 
Employees whose employment with the CITY is terminated for any reason shall, at the time of 
termination, receive pay for any unused vacation hours previously earned, in accordance with the 
existing personnel rules and regulations. 
 
16.2 
THE CITY shall not require an employee to take vacation in lieu of sick leave or “Leave of Absence” due 
to illness.  Employees may, if they wish, transfer sick leave credit to fellow department employees who 
have exhausted all their other leave due to illness or accidental injury. Approval of said transfers must 
be secured from the appropriate department director.  Transfers shall be credited in terms of equivalent 
hourly amounts expressed in dollars. 
 
16.3   Compensatory Time 
Employee’s accrual of compensatory time will agree with the Fair Labor Standards for State and Local 
Governments and Schools as follows: 

•  Regular employees may accrue up to 240 hours of compensatory time. 
•  Employees in public safety activities and emergency response activities may accrue up to 

280 hours of compensatory time. Accrued compensatory time above 280 hours will 
automatically be cashed out.  

 
TITLE 17. MISCELLANEOUS 
 
17.1 
The CITY shall not, by reason of the execution of this Agreement, abrogate or reduce the scope of any 
present plan, rule or item which is subject to the Meet and Confer process of the Meyers-Milias-Brown 
Act, which is not specifically covered by this Agreement. 

Anti-Abrogation 

 
Future MOU Amendments – ADA 

17.2 
The CITY and the GPOA shall meet, as needed throughout the contract, to refine and update the 
wording of the City Personnel Rules and this Memorandum of Understanding to reflect the statutory 
provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  The amended documents will then be submitted to 
the City Council for adoption. 

 

 

Page | 17 

 

 

GPOA 

Substance Abuse Policy 

17.3 
The CITY and the GPOA have agreed to implement the comprehensive substance abuse and testing 
policy attached to this Memorandum of Understanding as Exhibit "B". 

 

 
 Physical Fitness 

17.4 
The CITY desires its employees to remain physically fit and will reimburse GPOA members up to $25 per 
month for gym membership.  Should a member pay for more than one month at a time (for example, six 
months in advance) the City will only reimburse that member at a rate of $25 per month. The City 
Administrator will have the final approval or disapproval authority of any facility or business selected by 
the member to ensure the intent of this section is met.  

 
Personnel Rules 

17.5 
The CITY and ASSOCIATION will review the Personnel Rules and this MOU during its term, and work 
together in an attempt to combine any language directly related to hours, wages and working conditions 
that are normally considered to be more appropriate to the MOU than the Personnel Rules. 
 
TITLE 18.  BENEFITS 
 
18.1  Medical 
City Medical Plans 
The City shall provide the following medical plans: 

 

Anthem Blue Cross HMO – High Option (HMO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 
Anthem Blue Cross PPO – High Option (PPO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 
  
Employee Contributions 
Employees shall contribute the following dollar amounts plus 20% of any premium increase for their 
selected Blue Cross Plan: 
Employee: 
 
Employee + One: 
Employee + Family: 
 

       $64.57  
     $104.14  
     $137.88 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

In no event shall employee contributions exceed the following monthly contribution: 

Employee: 
Employee + One: 
Employee + Family: 
 

 

$100.00 
$150.00 
$200.00 

In Lieu Health Plan Contributions 
Any employee who submits a written request to waive health insurance coverage and the City 
contribution to the cafeteria plan may do so provided they have proof of other health insurance 
coverage.  Such employee shall receive fifty-percent (50%) of the 2014 monthly premium value of the 
plan tier for which the employee waives coverage, i.e. Employee Only ($728), Employee +1 ($1460), 
Family ($1,897), and this payment shall be allocated to employee's payroll or to one of the City's tax 
deferred IRS plans provided herein. An employee may opt out of health coverage only during the regular 
open enrollment period. 
 
18.2  Dental Plan 
The CITY agrees to provide and maintain a Group Dental Insurance Program at the agreed-upon level of 
GPOA 
 

Page | 18 

 

benefits and the CITY shall pay 100% of the costs of such coverage for the term of this agreement. 

 

The employee, upon separation, may apply with the City for COBRA benefits for dental insurance.  The 
payment of insurance premiums would be the obligation of the employee upon retirement at the rate 
described in COBRA for a period of up to 18 months (the available time period is also described by 
COBRA). 

Life Insurance 

18.3 
The CITY shall provide and maintain a Group Life Insurance with accidental death and dismemberment 
benefits.  The basic amount is $20,000 for all employees and the premium will be paid by the CITY.  In 
addition, CITY will provide a Standard Insurance Company long-term disability plan having a 90-day 
elimination period during the term of this Agreement, the full cost of which shall be borne by the CITY. 
 
18.4   Cafeteria Benefit Fund/Health Savings Accounts 
IRS 125 Plan 
To the extent provided by the applicable IRS regulations, an employee shall have the option to designate 
salary to the IRS Section 125 Plan during open enrollment for such plan. 

Thirty (30) days after separation from employment, unexpended balances in an employee Cafeteria 
Benefit Account revert to the City.  Any funds not requested for reimbursement (for costs incurred 
during the term of employment) within thirty days of separation are forfeited.   
 
Health Savings Accounts 
The City and GPOA agree to continue to meet and discuss retiree health care with the intent of 
establishing a medical plan savings plan/s such as Health Care Savings Accounts (HSA), Health Care 
Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA), and Retirement Health Savings Accounts (RHS). 
 
18.5  Deferred Compensation Program 
The CITY has established for all employee’s voluntary participation in qualified 457 Deferred 
Compensation programs. The city will match $25 per month for those GPOA members who contribute at 
least $25 per month to the program. 

 

 
Incentive Pay  

18.6 
For employees hired prior to July 1, 2011, the incentive pay percentages listed below shall be converted 
to an equivalent flat dollar amount (provided the salary increase specified for the first pay period in July 
2011 is included in the conversion) plus fifty ($50) dollars per certificate as indicated below:  

 
Sworn Police Personnel (Police Sergeant, Police Officer, Detective, B.I.N.T.F. Detective) 

• 
•  Advanced P.O.S.T. Certificate 

Intermediate P.O.S.T. Certificate 
  

 

 
(Additional) 

2.5% 
2.5% 

Non-Sworn Police Personnel (Public Safety Dispatcher/Records Technician and Animal Control 
Officer) 

Intermediate Level * 

• 
•  Advanced Level * 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 (Additional) 

2.5% 
2.5% 

* Qualification for Incentive Pay shall be based upon an equivalent number of training points, education 

Page | 19 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 

and experience as follows: 
 
INTERMEDIATE SWORN OFFICER LEVEL 
Applicants for the award of Intermediate Certificate shall: 

•  Satisfy the requirements specified in Regulation Section 9070(d) 
•  Possess or be eligible to possess the Basic Certificate for the current position 
•  Satisfy one of the following eligibility combinations: 

Degree or Education Points 
Bachelor Degree 
Associate Degree 
45 Education Points 
30 Education Points 
15 Education Points 

Law Enforcement Experience 
2 Years 
4 Years 
4 Years 
6 Years 
8 Years 

Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 

Training Points 
0 
0 
45 
30 
15 

 
ADVANCED SWORN OFFICER LEVEL 
Applicants for the award of an Advanced Certificate shall: 

•  Satisfy the requirements specified in Regulation Section 9070(d) 
•  Possess or be eligible to possess the Intermediate Certificate for the current position 
•  Satisfy one of the following eligibility combinations: 

Degree or Education Points 
Master Degree 
Bachelor Degree 
Associate Degree 
45 Education Points 
30 Education Points 

Law Enforcement Experience 
4 Years 
6 Years 
9 Years 
9 Years 
11 Years 

Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 

Training Points 
0 
0 
0 
45 
30 

 
INTERMEDIATE DISPATCHER LEVEL  
Applicants for the award of a Dispatcher Intermediate Certificate shall: 
•  Satisfy the requirements specified in Regulation Section 9070(c) 
•  Possess or be eligible to possess the Dispatcher Basic Certificate for the current position 
•  Satisfy one of the following eligibility combinations: 

Degree or Education Points 
Bachelor Degree 
Associate Degree 
45 Education Points 
30 Education Points 
15 Education Points 

Law Enforcement Experience 
3 Years 
5 Years 
5 Years 
7 Years 
9 Years 

Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 
Plus 

Training Points 
0 
0 
12 
11 
10 

and 
and 
and 
and 
and 

and 
and 
and 
and 
and 

and 
and 
and 
and 
and 

 
ADVANCED DISPATCHER LEVEL  
Applicants for the award of a Dispatcher Advanced Certificate shall: 

•  Satisfy the requirements specified in Regulation Section 9070(c) 
•  Possess or be eligible to possess the Dispatcher Intermediate Certificate  
•  Satisfy one of the following eligibility combinations: 

Degree or Education Points 
Master Degree 
Bachelor Degree 

and 
and 

Law Enforcement Experience 
5 Years 
7 Years 

Plus 
Plus 

Page | 20 

 

 

Training Points 
0 
0 

GPOA 

Associate Degree 
45 Education Points 
30 Education Points 

and 
and 
and 

9 Years 
9 Years 
11 Years 

Plus 
Plus 
Plus 

0 
12 
11 

 
TRAINING POINTS:  Eight classroom hours of job-related training approved by the CITY. 
EDUCATION POINTS: One semester unit from an accredited college or university. 
Training acquired in the basic dispatcher's course may be credited toward the number of training points 
necessary to obtain the incentive. 
 
To qualify for the incentive, the Dispatcher or Animal Control Officer must have completed a 
combination of training, education, and experience as previously specified.  For example, a Dispatcher 
must have completed 240 hours of training plus 20 semester units, plus 12 years of experience to be 
eligible for the Advanced Incentive Compensation as a 12-year veteran employee. 

 
Canine Officer Compensation 

18.7 
Establishment of Program 
 
This section sets forth the terms and conditions of certain additional compensation to be received by a 
Canine Officer in the event the CITY establishes a Canine Officer position.  The parties agree and 
understand that the CITY, as a part of its management prerogative, retains full discretion as to whether 
or not it will implement a Canine Program within DEPARTMENT, retains full discretion as to the manner 
in which said program will be implemented and retains full discretion to discontinue, terminate, or 
modify said program after it has been established. Additionally, the parties agree and understand that 
the CITY retains the discretion, as its management prerogative, to determine who they would select to 
serve as a Canine Officer within the Gridley-Biggs Police Department (subject only to that officer's 
agreement to serve in such position) and the CITY further retains full discretion to reassign the duties of 
the Canine Officer to other personnel within the DEPARTMENT from time to time as the CITY may 
determine to be in the best interests of the Police Department.  

Additional Compensation for Canine Officer 
In the event the CITY establishes a Canine Program, the Canine Officer shall be entitled to receive the 
following additional compensation in exchange for the additional duties to be performed under the 
Canine Program: 

•  The Canine Officer shall be compensated for daily grooming and feeding of the Canine at the 
usual overtime rate of 1-1/2 times the Officer's hourly compensation rate to a maximum of 30 
minutes per day. 

•  The Canine Officer shall be compensated for call outs specifically related to use of the Canine at 

1-1/2 times the Officer's hourly compensation rate.  Call-out time is to be based on "portal to 
portal" time service (i.e. from the time the officer begins the call-out service until termination 
of the call-out service).  There shall be no maximum or minimum time to be charged for call-
out service specifically related to the Canine service.  The call-out provision with respect to the 
Canine Officer does not apply to other call-out services that are not specifically related to the 
Canine service (in particular, there is currently a 2-hour minimum for call outs which shall 
remain unaffected by the special call-out provisions established for Canine service). 

 

 

18.8.  Computer Purchase Program 
The City of Gridley has established a computer purchase loan program for its employees.  The City 

Page | 21 

 

 

GPOA 

encourages the use of computers by employees, where such use will result in a more efficient use of 
time and an improved work product.  City personnel will have the opportunity to acquire desktop and 
laptop computers and accessories that will enhance their personal and professional skills. 
 
Participation in the loan program is voluntary and subject to the following conditions: 

•  Eligible employees may receive a loan of up to $2,000 (Two Thousand Dollars) for the purchase 

of a computer (desktop or laptop), printer, digital camera, software and other related 
equipment as provided under the minimum standards as defined under City policy.  The 
specific items to be purchased must be approved in advance by the City Administrator (or his 
designee). 

•  The equipment must meet minimum standards established by the City:   

Minimum standards are subject to revision by the City as necessary to maintain current 
technology.  Revision to the standards will be via changes to City policy approved by City 
Council. 

•  The term of the loan shall be 24 months and interest free.  The loan repayment schedule shall 

generally start with the payroll period following the month in which the City paid for the 
equipment. 

•  The Finance Department will deduct payments from the employee’s paycheck as provided for 

in the individual agreement repayment schedule (generally in equal installments).  The 
employee may make payments in excess of the minimum necessary to satisfy the loan in 24 
months.  

•  The loan agreement, included as an exhibit in the original 1998 Resolution No. 47 approving 

the loan program must be signed. The loan agreement is included in the City policy and may be 
changed immaterially from time to time based on the circumstances of a particular loan. 

•  The Security Agreement, included as an exhibit in the original 1998 Resolution approving the 

loan program must be signed. The Security Agreement is included in the City policy and may be 
changed immaterially from time to time based on the circumstances of a particular loan to 
adequately identify the security of the loan. 

•  The Computer Loan Program was originally incorporated into the MOU between the City and 

GPOA in the 1998-1999 fiscal year by reference and was previously included as Exhibit D of the 
2005-2008 MOU. 

 
18.9    Bilingual Pay 
Effective  July 1, 2011 Bilingual pay shall be converted  to an equivalent flat dollar amount ( provided 
the salary increase specified for the first pay period in July 2011 is included in the conversion) plus Fifty 
($50): An employee shall receive bilingual pay of five percent (5%) of base salary if:  

The CITY determines that bilingual skill in a specific foreign language will improve the 
operations of the Police Department. 
The employee agrees to utilize his or her bilingual ability on the job. 
The employee is able to demonstrate bilingual proficiency that is satisfactory to the CITY. 
Employees in the positions covered by the Memorandum of Understanding shall be eligible for 
this pay, upon meeting requirements. 

18.10   Cell Phone Allowance 
CITY recognizes the value of cell phone service for use by on-duty law enforcement.  Effective July1, 
2011, CITY agreed to pay $40 per month towards a phone service contract held by individuals in the 

 

GPOA 

Page | 22 

 

• 

• 
• 
• 

 

positions of Police Officer, Detective (assignment), Police Sergeant and Dispatch if:  

•  The employee has an individual contract with a recognized cell phone company for service 
(under terms of a master government contract) and agrees to be responsible for any and all 
other monthly charges in excess of $40 per month and any charges for equipment.   

•  The Police Chief may establish reasonable procedures governing the use of these phones 

during on-duty hours. 

•  The employee agrees to utilize the phone while on duty for business related uses. 
•  CITY agrees to pays a $65 per month allowance for the individual assigned to BINTF.  Except for 

this provision, all other conditions of use of a cell phone included in this section apply to the 
cell phone provisions for the individual assigned to BINTF.  In lieu of the $65 per month 
allowance for use of the employee’s personal cell phone, the CITY agrees to pay for the entire 
business-related cost of a CITY provided cellular phone service for the individual assigned to 
BINTF if they decline to participate in the per month allowance program. 

•  The individual receiving the cell phone allowance shall be responsible to notify the CITY of 

changes to their cell phone service including such events as the termination of their service, the 
change of their cell phone number or their decision not to use their cell phone for business 
related uses while on duty. 
 

18.11   Vision Plan 
The CITY has established a vision plan for members; however, members who desire to participate will 
bear 100% of their costs.   
 
TITLE 19.  RETIREMENT 
 
19.1 
Following is a listing of benefits and their availability upon retirement.  This listing is not exhaustive and 
is only provided as a guide relating to sick and vacation accruals (if any) and remaining balances in the 
cafeteria plan (if any).  Where known, other benefits that extend beyond the retirement date of the 
employee are also included (dental and health insurance). 

Retirement Benefits 

 

• 

•  Vacation:  Balances available at the time of retirement fully accrue to the retiring employee.  
The employee, at their option, may apply the value equivalent of the vacation accrual to the 
following: 
“Cash out” the value of the vacation accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions.    This 
would apply to anywhere between 0% and 100% of available balances. 
If the employee has not contributed the maximum allowable for the year to their existing 457 
plan, the value of the vacation “cash out” up to the maximum allowable contribution amount 
may be directed to their 457 deferred income account at ICMA. 

• 

•  Dental insurance:  The employee, upon separation, may apply with the City for COBRA benefits 

for dental insurance.  The payment of insurance premiums would be the obligation of the 
employee upon retirement at the rate and duration as described in COBRA. 

•  Health Insurance:  The employee, upon separation, and not more than 120 days following 

separation, may apply to continue health insurance coverage available through the City Health 
Care Provider.   

Page | 23 

 

GPOA 

 
 
 

 

Sick Leave Pay Off 

19. 2 
Sick leave balances are available to an employee only upon the retirement into the CalPERS retirement 
system within 120 days of retirement from the City.  

For those GPOA members hired prior to July 1, 2011, at the time of service retirement, sick leave, 
which has been accumulated during an employee's tenure with the CITY, shall be available at the 
current value for any of the following purposes: 

•  Reimbursed to employee upon retirement separation.  Appropriate income taxes per IRS and 
State of California guidelines will be deducted upon payment of accumulated sick leave. This is 
not available to employees hired after July 1, 2011. 

•  Converted to years of service credits under PERS guidelines (all employees) 
•  Cash out the value of the sick leave accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions.  This 

would apply to anywhere between 0% and 100% of available balances. This is not available to 
employees hired after July 1, 2011. 

 

Note:  Eligible employees may utilize the above in any combination but only up to the total available 
accrual at the time of retirement for the employee. 

19. 3  Public Employees' Retirement System (P.E.R.S.) 
Note: The California Public Employees’ Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA), on and after January 1, 
2013, requires a public retirement system, as defined, to modify its plan or plans to comply with the act 
and, among other provisions, establishes new retirement formulas that may not be exceeded by a 
public employer offering a defined benefit pension plan, setting the maximum benefit allowable for 
employees first hired on or after January 1, 2013, as a formula commonly known as 2.5% at age 67 for 
non-safety members, one of 3 formulas for safety members, 2% at age 57, 2.5% at age 57, or 2.7% at 
age 57. 
 
Retirement benefits shall be provided to eligible employees in accordance with the appropriate 
contract between the City and the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). 
 
The use of terms “Classic Member” and “New Member” shall be as defined by CalPERS and the Public 
Employee Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA).  

A “Classic Member” is defined as any of the following: 

•  A new hire that was brought into CalPERS membership for the first time before January 1, 

2013. 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to 
January 1, 2013, and is eligible for reciprocity. 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 
rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of less than six months. 

A “New Member” is defined as any of the following: 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who has no prior membership in a qualifying public retirement system; or 

Page | 24 

 

 

GPOA 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to 
January 1, 2013, and is not eligible for reciprocity; or 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 

rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of greater than six months. 
 

•  The 3% at 50 formula shall be provided for Safety Classic Members hired prior to January 1, 

•  The 2% at 55 PERS formula shall be provided for Classic Member employees hired prior to 

Classic Member Retirement Formulas 

2013.  

January 1, 2012. 

 

New Member Retirement Formula 

•  2.7% at 57 retirement formula shall be provided for all new Safety Member employees. 
•  2% at 62 retirement formula shall be provided for all New Member employees. 

Employee Contribution  
Employees classified as Classic Members shall pay 100% of the member contribution, 9%. 
 
Employees classified as New Members shall pay 50% of the PERS “normal costs” rounded to the 
nearest quarter of 1 percent (as defined in PEPRA).   

Members shall be notified of the monthly contribution rate for the following fiscal year in the first 
quarter of each calendar year.  

All applicable contributions identified shall be made through payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis. 

 

 

One-Year Final Compensation – Section 20042 
The City has previously agreed to and has amended its PERS Agreement for determining the average 
monthly pay rate when calculating retirement benefits from the 36 highest paid consecutive months to 
the 12 highest paid consecutive months pursuant to Section 20042 of the PERS Retirement Law 
effective July 1, 2011.  This benefit will only apply to employees hired before July 1, 2011 
 
1959 Survivor Benefit Level 3 – Section 21573 
City agrees to pay the two-dollar ($2) per month employee contribution for the current 1959 Survivor 
benefit (Level 3) Section 21573 of the PERS Retirement Law effective July 1, 2008. 

 
Sick Leave Incentive Payment 

19. 4 
The CITY agrees to provide a sick leave incentive payment of $200 per year to permanent full time 
employees who have not used more than three (3) days of sick leave during the previous 12 months 
(December 1 - November 30) of continuous employment with the DEPARTMENT.  The incentive is 
payable during the month of December each year. 

TITLE 20.  SEVERABILITY CLAUSE 
 
20.1 
If any article or section of this Memorandum of Understanding should be found invalid, unlawful, or 

Severability Clause 

 

GPOA 

Page | 25 

 

 

 

Term 

unenforceable by reason of any existing or subsequent enacted legislation or by judicial authority, all 
other articles and sections of this Memorandum of Understanding shall remain in full force and effect 
for the duration of this Memorandum.  In the event of invalidation of any article or section, the CITY 
and the ASSOCIATION agree to meet within thirty (30) days for the purpose of renegotiating said article 
or section. 
 
TITLE 21.  TERM OF AGREEMENT 
 
21.1 
This Agreement shall take effect on July 1, 2019 and shall continue in full force and effect through June 
30, 2022. 
 
TITLE 22.  PAST PRACTICES 
 
22.1 
Neither the GPOA (nor other designees of the bargaining unit) nor the CITY shall be bound by any 
requirement which is not expressly and explicitly stated in this agreement.  Specifically, but not 
exclusively, neither the GPOA nor the CITY shall be bound by any past practices of the CITY or by 
understandings with any employee or organization unless such past practices or understandings are 
specifically stated in this agreement.  

Past Practices 

Page | 26 

 

 

GPOA 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Memorandum of Understanding 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

           

           

CITY OF GRIDLEY 

BY: __________________________ 

DATED: ______________________    

MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN CITY OF GRIDLEY AND THE GRIDLEY POLICE 
OFFICERS ASSOCIATION 
 
 
this 8th day of October, 2019. 
 
GRIDLEY POLICE OFFICERS               
ASSOCIATION 
 
BY:                                                 
 
DATED:                                         
 
 
BY:                                                        
 
DATED:                                         
 
 
BY:                                                      
 
DATED:                                         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

           

   

 

 

 

 
 

Page | 27 

 

 
 

 

GPOA 

EXHIBIT A 
Gridley Police Officers Association  
Salary Schedule 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page | 28 

 

 

GPOA 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Sworn Officers 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2019 

Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

Step 1 
5,145 
4,267 

Step 2 
5,402 
4,480 

Step 3 
5,672 
4,704 

Step 4 
5,956 
4,939 

Step 5 
6,254 
5,186 

Step 6 
6,567 
5,445 

Step 7 
6,731 
5,581 

Certificate and other additional pay 
Intermediate POST Certificate - (Flat Rate) 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

161 
142 

166 
146 

Advanced Certificate in addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 

Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Assignment - Detective (5%) 
Police Officer 

Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Sergeant 

Police Officer 
Longevity 
1% at 10 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
2% at 15 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
3% at 20 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Educational incentive pay (Flat Rate) 
Associates Arts Degree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Bachelor's Degree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Master's Degree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Offícer 

172 
151 

172 
151 

178 
156 

178 
156 

184 
162 

184 
162 

188 
164 

188 
164 

191 
167 

191 
167 

161 
142 

166 
146 

213 

224 

235 

247 

259 

272 

279 

271 
233 

282 
243 

294 
252 

306 
262 

319 
273 

326 
279 

333 
284 

51 
43 

103 
85 

154 
128 

94 
87 

161 
142 

271 
233 

54 
45 

108 
90 

162 
134 

96 
89 

166 
146 

282 
243 

57 
47 

113 
94 

170 
141 

99 
90 

172 
151 

294 
252 

60 
49 

119 
99 

179 
148 

101 
92 

178 
156 

306 
262 

63 
52 

125 
104 

188 
156 

104 
95 

184 
162 

319 
273 

66 
54 

131 
109 

197 
163 

105 
96 

188 
164 

326 
279 

67 
56 

135 
112 

202 
167 

107 
97 

191 
167 

333 
284 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Sworn Officers 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2020 

Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

Step 1 
5,248 
4,352 

Step 2 
5,510 
4,570 

Step 3 
5,786 
4,799 

Step 4 
6,075 
5,039 

Step 5  Step 6 
6,698 
5,556 

6,379 
5,291 

Step 7 
6,865 
5,695 

172 
151 

172 
151 

240 

294 
252 

229 

218 

166 
146 

166 
146 

161 
142 

161 
142 

271 
233 

282 
243 

Certificate and other additional pay 
Intermediate POST Certificate (Flat Rate) 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Advanced Certificate in addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Assignment -Detective (5%) 
Police Officer 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Longevity 
1% at 10 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
2% at 15 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
3% at 20 years of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Educational Incentive Pay (Flat Rate) 
Associates Arts Deeree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Bachelor's Deeree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Master's Deeree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

110 
91 

161 
142 

157 
131 

166 
146 

165 
137 

105 
87 

271 
233 

282 
243 

52 
44 

96 
89 

55 
46 

94 
87 

~ 

58 
48 

116 
96 

174 
144 

99 
90 

172 
151 

294 
252 

178 
156 

178 
156 

184 
162 

184 
162 

188 
164 

188 
164 

191 
167 

191 
167 

252 

265 

278 

285 

306 
262 

319 
273 

326 
279 

333 
284 

61 
50 

122 
101 

182 
151 

101 
92 

178 
156 

306 
262 

64 
53 

128 
106 

191 
159 

104 
95 

184 
162 

319 
273 

67 
56 

134 
111 

201 
167 

105 
96 

188 
164 

326 
279 

69 
57 

137 
114 

206 
171 

107 
97 

191 
167 

333 
284 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Sworn Officers 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2021 

Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

Step 1 
5,353 
4,439 

Step 2 
5,620 
4,661 

Step 3 
5,901 
4,894 

Step 4 
6,196 
5,139 

Step 5 
6,506 
5,396 

Step 6 
6,831 
5,666 

Step 7 
7,002 
5,808 

Certificate and other additional pay 
Intermediate POST Certificate (Flat Rate) 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

161 
142 

166 
146 

172 
151 

Advanced Certificate in addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 

161 
142 

166 
146 

172 
151 

178 
156 

178 
156 

184 
162 

184 
162 

188 
164 

188 
164 

191 
167 

191 
167 

Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Assignment - Detective (5%) 
Police Officer 

Bilingual pay (Flat Rate) 
Sergeant 

Police Officer 
Longevity 
1% at 10 vears of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
2% at 15 vears of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
3% at 20 vears of service 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Educational incentive pay (Flat Rate) 
Associates Arts Degree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Bachelor's Deeree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 
Master's Degree 
Police Sergeant 
Police Officer 

222 

233 

245 

257 

270 

283 

290 

271 
233 

282 
243 

294 
252 

306 
262 

319 
273 

326 
279 

333 
284 

54 
44 

107 
89 

161 
133 

94 
87 

161 
142 

271 
233 

56 
47 

112 
93 

169 
140 

96 
89 

166 
146 

282 
243 

59 
49 

118 
98 

177 
147 

99 
90 

172 
151 

294 
252 

62 
51 

124 
103 

186 
154 

101 
92 

178 
156 

306 
262 

65 
54 

130 
108 

195 
162 

104 
95 

184 
162 

319 
273 

68 
57 

137 
113 

205 
170 

105 
96 

188 
164 

326 
279 

70 
58 

140 
116 

210 
174 

107 
97 

191 
167 

333 
284 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Non-Sworn Employees 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2019 

Evidence Officer 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ 
Animal Control Officer 
Community Service Officer 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

Step 6 

Step 7 

3,238 
2,913 

3,400 
3,059 

3,570 
3,212 

3,749 
3,374 

3,936 
3,542 

4,133 
3,719 

4,236 
3,812 

Certificate and other additional Pay 
Intermediate POST Certificate or Bilingual Pay {Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

128 
Community Service Officer 
128 
Advanced Certificate - in addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 
128 
128 

121 
121 

121 
121 

124 
124 

124 
124 

Community Service Officer 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Dispatcher/ACO 
Community Service Officer 
Longevity 
1% at 10 vears of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
2% at 15 vears of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
3% at 20 vears of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Educational Incentive Pay (Flat Rate) 
Associates Arts Deeree 

Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Bachelor's Deeree 

Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Master's Deeree 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 

32 
29 

65 
58 

97 
87 

78 
78 

121 
121 

192 
192 

132 
132 

132 
132 

214 
214 

37 
34 

75 
67 

136 
136 

136 
136 

222 
222 

39 
35 

79 
71 

138 
138 

138 
138 

227 
227 

41 
37 

83 
74 

141 
141 

141 
141 

231 
231 

42 
38 

85 
76 

192 
192 

199 
199 

206 
206 

34 
31 

68 
61 

36 
32 

71 
64 

102 
92 

107 
96 

112 
101 

118 
106 

124 
112 

127 
114 

80 
80 

124 
124 

199 
199 

81 
81 

128 
128 

206 
206 

83 
83 

132 
132 

214 
214 

84 
84 

136 
136 

222 
222 

85 
85 

138 
138 

227 
227 

86 
86 

141 
141 

231 
231 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Non-Sworn Employees 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2020 

Evidence Officer 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ 
Animal Control Officer 
Community Service Officer 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

Step 6 

Step 7 

3,303 
2,971 

3,468 
3,120 

3,641 
3,277 

3,823 
3,441 

4,014 
.3,612 

4,215 
3,793 

4,320 
3,888 

Certificate and other additional Pay 
Intermediate POST Certificate or Bilíngual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

128 
Community Service Officer 
128 
Advanced Certificate - In addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 
128 
128 

121 
121 

121 
121 

124 
124 

124 
124 

132 
132 

132 
132 

214 
214 

38 
34 

76 
69 

136 
136 

136 
136 

222 
222 

40 
36 

80 
72 

138 
138 

138 
138 

227 
227 

42 
38 

84 
76 

141 
141 

141 
141 

231 
231 

43 
39 

86 
78 

192 
192 

199 
199 

206 
206 

35 
31 

69 
62 

36 
33 

73 
66 

104 
94 

109 
98 

115 
103 

120 
108 

126 
114 

130 
117 

80 
80 

124 
124 

199 
199 

81 
81 

128 
128 

206 
206 

83 
83 

132 
132 

214 
214 

84 
84 

136 
136 

222 
222 

85 
85 

138 
138 

227 
227 

86 
86 

141 
141 

231 
231 

Community Service Officer 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Dispatcher/ACO 
Communíty Service Officer 
longevity 
1% at 10 years of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
2% at 15 years of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
3% at 20 nears of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Educational Incentive Pay (Flat Rate) 
Associates Arts Degree 
Publíc Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Bachelor's Degree 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Master's Degree 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 

33 
30 

66 
59 

99 
89 

78 
78 

121 
121 

192 
192 

Schedule of Wage Rates -Non-Sworn Employees 
Bargaining Group: GPOA 
Effective Date 7-1-2021 

Evidence Officer 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ 
Animal Control Officer 
Community Service Officer 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

Step 6 

Step 7 

3,369 
3,031 

3,537 
3,182 

3,714 
3,342 

3,900 
3,510 

4,095 
3,685 

4,300 
3,869 

4,408 
3,966 

Certificate and other additional Pav 
Intermediate POST Certificate or Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Advanced Certificate - in addition to Intermediate (Flat Rate) 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

121 
121 

121 
121 

124 
124 

124 
124 

128 
128 

128 
128 

Community Service Officer 
Bilingual Pay (Flat Rate) 
Dispatcher/ACO 
Community Service Officer 
Longevity 
1% at 10 years of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
2% at 15 years of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
3% at 20 years of service 
Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Educational Incentive Pay (Flat Rate) 
Assocïates Arts Deeree 

Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Bachelor's Deeree 

Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 
Master's Deeree 

Public Safety Dispatcher/ACO 

Community Service Officer 

132 
132 

132 
132 

214 
214 

39 
35 

78 
70 

136 
136 

136 
136 

222 
222 

41 
37 

82 
74 

138 
138 

138 
138 

227 
227 

43 
39 

86 
77 

141 
141 

141 
141 

231 
231 

44 
40 

88 
79 

192 
192 

199 
199 

206 
206 

34 
30 

67 
61 

35 
32 

71 
64 

37 
33 

74 
67 

101 
91 

106 
95 

111 
100 

117 
105 

123 
111 

129 
116 

132 
119 

78 
78 

121 
121 

192 
192 

80 
80 

124 
124 

199 
199 

81 
81 

128 
128 

206 
206 

83 
83 

132 
132 

214 
214 

84 
84 

136 
136 

222 
222 

85 
85 

138 
138 

227 
227 

86 
86 

141 
141 

231 
231 

 

Exhibit B 
GRIDLEY POLICE DEPARTMENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY 
 
PURPOSE 
This policy provides guidelines for the detection and deterrence of alcohol and drug abuse.  It also 
outlines the responsibilities of management and employees.  It is the policy of the Gridley Police Dept. 
to maintain a safe, healthful, and productive work place for all employees.  To that end, the City of 
Gridley will act to eliminate any substance abuse (alcohol, illegal drugs, and prescription drugs or any 
other substance which could impair an employee's ability to safely and effectively perform the 
functions of the particular job) which increases the potential for accidents, absenteeism, substandard 
performance, poor employee morale, or tends to undermine public confidence in the City's work force.  
All persons covered by this policy should be aware that violations of the policy may result in discipline, 
up to and including termination, or in not being hired. 
 
POLICY 
It is Department policy that employees shall not report to work under the influence of alcohol or drugs, 
or have the odor of alcohol or drugs on their breath, possess, sell, or provide drugs or alcohol to any 
other employee or to any person while such employee is on duty or on call, or have their ability to work 
impaired as a result of the use of alcohol or drugs. 
 
While use of medically prescribed medications and drugs is not, per se, a violation of this policy, failure 
by the employee to notify his/her supervisor, before beginning work, when taking medications or drugs 
which may interfere with the safe and effective performance of duties of operation of city equipment 
can result in discipline up to and including termination.  In the event there is a question regarding an 
employee's ability to safely and effectively perform assigned duties while using such medication or 
drugs, clearance from a qualified physician may be required. 
 
The City of Gridley has established a voluntary Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to assist those 
employees who voluntarily seek help for alcohol or drug problems.  Employees should contact their 
supervisors for additional information. 
 
The Department has the right to conduct searches of all items, such as lunch boxes, purses, cars, tool 
boxes, and brief cases which are brought onto city property, as well as all items of city property, such as 
city vehicles, desks and lockers, whenever management deems such searches necessary. 
 
Violations of this policy shall be grounds for disciplinary action up to and including discharge for serious 
or repeated infractions.  Any confirmed indication of drug use shall be grounds for removing an 
employee from a sensitive position.  Any Department member may be removed upon confirmation of 
illegal drug use.  Refusal to submit immediately to an alcohol and/or drug analysis when requested by 
management or a supervisor will constitute insubordination which alone will form a basis for discipline. 
 
Employees reasonably believed to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs shall be prevented from 
engaging in further work and may be instructed to wait for a reasonable time until an authorized city 
representative can transport the employee from the work site. 
 

Page | 29 

 

 

GPOA 

 
EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES 
An employee must: 

•  not report to work or be subject to duty while his/her ability to perform job duties is impaired 

due to alcohol or drug use, on or off duty; 

•  not possess or use or have the odor of alcohol or drugs on his/her breath during working hours, 
on breaks, during meal periods while on city property in an official capacity or while operating 
any city vehicle; 

•  not directly or through a third party sell or provide drugs or alcohol to any person or to any 

other employee while either employee or both employees are on duty, or "on-call"; 
submit immediately to reasonable requests for alcohol and/or drug analysis when requested by 
a supervisor or manager who has reasonable suspicion employee is under the influence; 
•  notify his/her supervisor, before beginning work, when taking any medications or drugs, 

• 

prescription or non-prescription, which may interfere with the safe and effective performance 
of duties or operation of city equipment; and, 

•  provide within twenty-four (24) hours of request, a current valid prescription for any drug or 
medication identified when drug screen/analysis is positive.  The prescription must be in the 
employee's name. 

 
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND GUIDELINES 
Managers and supervisors are responsible for consistent enforcement of this policy.  Any supervisor 
who knowingly permits a violation of this policy by employees under his/her direct supervision shall be 
subject to disciplinary action.  
 
Managers and supervisors may request that an employee submit to a drug and/or alcohol analysis 
when a manager or supervisor has a reasonable suspicion that an employee is intoxicated or under the 
influence of drugs or alcohol.  "Reasonable suspicion" is a belief based on objective and articulable 
facts sufficient to lead a reasonable prudent supervisor to suspect that an employee is under the 
influence of drugs or alcohol so that the employee's ability to perform the functions of the job is 
impaired or so that the employee's ability to perform his/her job safely is reduced. 
 
The manager or supervisor shall document in writing the facts constituting reasonable suspicion that 
the employee in question is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.  Any manager or supervisor 
requesting an employee to submit to a drug and/or alcohol analysis shall be responsible for the 
employee's transport to the designated medical center for administration of the test.  Any manager or 
supervisor encountering an employee who refuses to submit to an alcohol and/or drug analysis shall 
remind the employee of the requirements and consequences of this policy.  An employee shall not be 
forced to submit to such testing.  The manager or supervisor shall be responsible for arranging 
transportation home for the employee. Managers or supervisors shall not confiscate, without consent, 
prescription medications from an employee who has a prescription. 
 
PRE-EMPLOYMENT SCREENING 
Candidates selected for employment with the Department will be required to submit to a pre-
employment physical, therapy evaluation, and a drug and alcohol screening to determine if the 
candidate is fit to perform the duties of the job for which he/she is applying.  All employment 
applicants for these positions will be informed of the physical and drug/alcohol screening tests in the 

Page | 30 

 

 

GPOA 

job announcements and will be asked to sign a consent form confirming their voluntary participation in 
these tests as a prerequisite to consideration for employment.  A candidate who refuses to submit to 
any or all of these tests will not be considered for employment with the Gridley Police Department. 
 
A candidate who tests positive for drugs or alcohol will be so informed.  The candidate may be allowed 
to retest.  Should the second test also be positive, the candidate will not be considered for that or any 
other position with the Department. 
Should the second test be negative, the candidate will not be disqualified from employment with the 
Department for drug/alcohol reasons. 
 
FOR CAUSE SCREENING 
If a manager or supervisor has a reasonable suspicion based on articulable facts that an employee is 
unfit to perform the duties of his/her job or is suspected of being under the influence of drugs or 
alcohol, or that an employee's physical or emotional condition, or drugs or alcohol may be a 
contributing factor in any work-related accident or injury (hereinafter referred to as a "reasonable 
suspicion"), the supervisor or manager may direct the employee to submit to a fitness for duty physical 
examination which may include a physical therapy evaluation, and drug and/or alcohol analysis.  In the 
case of alcohol abuse, an intoxilyzer examination may suffice.  Should an intoxilyzer test be 
administered, the employee may at his/her request have a second test of his/her blood or urine as a 
back-up. 
 
Should an intoxilyzer test or a fitness for duty exam conclude that an employee is not fit for duty, the 
employee shall be notified, and the Chief of Police shall be notified at the earliest possible time. 
 
EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE 
The following shall be grounds for discipline: 

•  An employee who is directed to submit to an intoxilyzer test or fitness for duty examination 

•  An employee refuses to comply with the requests or instructions of the examining physician or 

and willfully refuses or fails to do so. 

person administering the intoxilyzer test. 

•  An employee tests positive for drugs and/or alcohol on the initial test and/or secondary tests 

•  An employee was on duty when he/she knew or should have known that he/she was unfit for 

administered. 

duty. 

•  Unlawful possession, distribution, dispensing or manufacturing of controlled substances on 

duty or within the workplace. 

 
The discipline to be imposed shall depend upon the totality of the circumstances surrounding the 
violation.  Consideration shall be given to the following factors among others: 

•  Previous discipline. 
•  The nature and severity of the offense. 
•  Employee culpability. 
•  Entry into and successful participation in a rehabilitation program. 

 
The discipline to be imposed may range from reprimand to termination.  Unless other circumstances 
exist that in the opinion of the Department, makes it inappropriate, an employee who has used or been 
GPOA 

Page | 31 

 

 

under the influence of drugs or alcohol may be permitted to participate in a rehabilitation program and 
be permitted to return to work in accordance with the procedures outlined in the return to work 
agreement. 
 
RETURN TO WORK AGREEMENT 
If one of the grounds for disciplinary action was the use of or being under the influence of drugs or 
alcohol, the City may require the employee, as a condition of continued employment, to enter into a 
Return to Work Agreement.  The Return to Work Agreement will provide for the protection of the 
employee's job, provided that: 

• 

• 
• 

the employee enters a drug or alcohol rehabilitation program acceptable to both the City and 
the employee; 
the employee successfully completes the program within the prescribed time; 
the employee complies with all conditions and directives of the program, including periodic 
drug testing if applicable; 

•  and such other provisions as may be agreed upon by the City and the employee. 

 
Failure of the employee to strictly comply with all the terms and conditions of the Return to Work 
Agreement shall be grounds for termination of employment, or a lesser sanction at the discretion of 
the City. 
 
TESTING PROCEDURES 
Testing for drugs shall be carried out in accordance with guidelines established by the National Institute 
on Drug Abuse.  Testing for alcohol shall be carried out in accordance with the regulations governing 
forensic alcohol testing in the State of California.  These procedures shall provide for confidentiality and 
integrity of the process to the greatest extent feasible. 
 
CONFIDENTIALITY OF TEST RESULTS 
All test results will be kept separate from the employee's personnel file and become part of, but 
separate from, the employee's normal medical records.  The information in this file will only be 
provided on a strict need-to-know basis and will not be released to any outside agency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Page | 32 

 

 

GPOA 

 

 
RETURN TO WORK AGREEMENT 
 
The Agreement is hereby entered into between City of Gridley (hereinafter referred to as 'City') and 
________________________________              (hereinafter referred to as 'Employee').  The purpose of 
this Agreement is to assist _______________________                       in solving his/her drug/alcohol 
problem.  This Agreement is in no way intended to restrict rights guaranteed City or Employee pursuant 
to state or federal laws or to the existing terms and conditions of employment. 
 
City agrees to suspend its action regarding the discipline of_____________________________________ 
as a result of__________________________________________________________________________.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
 
As a condition to and in consideration for the suspension of disciplinary action, Employee agrees to 
enroll in, participate in and complete City's designated Employee Assistance Plan (sometimes referred to 
herein as the 'Plan').  In the event that the Plan provider directs the Employee to participate in a 
rehabilitation program (sometimes referred to herein as the 'Program'), either in addition to or in place 
of participation in the Plan, Employee shall, as a condition to the suspension of disciplinary action, 
participate in and complete such a Program.  Any such Program must be approved in advance by City or 
the Plan provider. 
 
City's Employee Assistance Plan consists of 5 counseling sessions provided to employees to further 
assess the need for additional treatment.  In the event treatment beyond these 5 sessions is directed or 
required, the cost will be borne by the Employee.  Employee will be given 10 weeks in which to 
successfully complete the Employee Assistance Plan which Employee agrees is a reasonable time in 
which to complete the Plan.  Failure of Employee to successfully complete the Plan within this time 
period, unless excused for good cause by City or the Plan provider, may constitute a failure to comply 
with this Agreement.  If during or upon completion of the Employee Assistance Plan, the Plan provider 
determines that Employee requires further treatment, Employee shall be notified, and Employee shall 
thereupon make such arrangements for such further treatment. 
 
Employee understands and agrees to follow the instructions given by and conditions set by the 
treatment provider in order to complete the Plan or Program, as the case may be.  Employee 
understands that refusal to cooperate in any way with the Plan or Program provider for purposes of 
treatment, including failing to attend treatment sessions, will constitute a violation of this Agreement.  
Employee further understands that City will be in contact with treatment provider in order to verify 
Employee's compliance with this Agreement and will be entitled to receive, upon request from 
treatment provider, any documents related to or prepared in conjunction with Employee's treatment.  
The treatment provider will determine when Employee has successfully completed the Plan or Program.  
Once City has been notified of Employee's successful completion, City will reinstate Employee to active 
status with City.   
 
Failure of the Employee to abide by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, or the violation of any 
term of this Agreement, shall be grounds for the City to reinstate the disciplinary proceedings 
suspended pursuant to this Agreement.  This Agreement in no way limits City's ability to discipline or 
terminate Employee for conduct arising on or after the date of this Agreement, nor does this Agreement 
in any way limit City's right to use or make reference to the incident(s) described above as a basis, in 

Page | 33 

 

 

GPOA 

_____________________________                                               
City Representative 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
  

___________                                
Date 

part, to justify a decision to discipline or terminate Employee for conduct arising on or after the date of 
execution of this Agreement.  During Employee's participation in the Plan or Program, Employee will 
continue to enjoy and receive the rights and entitlements made available through the terms and 
conditions referred to above. 
 
 
                                      __________  
Employee  
 
 
                              
Date 
 
 
 
 ___________________________                                                                        
Employee Representative 
 
 
____________ 
Date                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Page | 34 

 

 

GPOA 

Exhibit C 
AMENDMENTS TO PERSONNEL RULES APPLICABLE TO GPOA 
 
CITY and GPOA agree that the following Sections of the Personnel Manual shall be amended as follows: 
 
2.26  Disciplinary Action 
Oral reprimand, written reprimand, dismissal, demotion, reduction in compensation, suspension, 
placement on disciplinary probation or other action taken for disciplinary punitive reasons. 
 
2.48 
The condition or conditions existing which may justify the discharge, demotion or suspension of an 
employee.  Reasonable cause may include, but not be limited to the following: 

Reasonable Cause 

•  Neglect of Duty 
•  Dishonesty 
•  Being under the influence of alcohol or drug. 
•  Unlawful use, sale or possession of narcotics or habit-forming drugs 
•  Unauthorized absence without leave 
•  Conviction of a felony, or conviction of a misdemeanor, involving moral turpitude.  A plea or 
verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere, to a charge of a felony or 
any offense involving moral turpitude is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this 
section 
Immorality 

• 
•  Repeated violation of safety procedures 
•  Misuse of City property 
•  Violation of any of the provisions of these rules or departmental rules and regulations 
•  Other failure of good behavior either during or outside of duty hours which is of such nature 

•  Refusal to take or subscribe to any oath or affirmation which is required by law in connection 

that causes discredit to the City 

with employment 

Insubordination 

•  Fraud in securing appointment 
• 
•  Unsatisfactory performance 
• 
•  Disrespectful behavior toward the public, superiors, or other employees 

Inefficiency 

 
2.63  Disciplinary Probation 
A form of Disciplinary Action, as distinguished from the usual probationary period for new or recently 
promoted employees, for a specified time not to exceed one year.  Employees placed on Disciplinary 
Probation may be dismissed for failure to meet any requirement imposed as a condition to such status. 
 

Page | 35 

 

 

GPOA 

Exhibit D 
Gridley Police Officers Association 
Job Descriptions 
 
Animal Control Officer 
Community Services Officer 
Police Officer 
Public Safety Dispatcher 
Public Safety Dispatcher & Records Supervisor 
Sergeant 
 

ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general direction from the Police Chief or his/her designee within a framework of established 
policies and standard operating procedures, to perform varied and routine non-sworn police work with 
an emphasis on animal control; enforcement of ordinances governing the licensing, impounding, 
disposal and quarantine of animals; respond to citizen complaints regarding nuisance or humane 
investigations; and to perform related work as assigned. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

 

•  Typical duties may vary from routine, non-sworn animal control and enforcement work to more 

complex duties of a similar nature 

•  Patrols the City to enforce City and State animal control ordinances and related laws 
•  Extensive contact with the general public in matters relating to care, control, maintenance and 

treatment of animals 
Issues citations 

• 
•  Takes less complex police reports 
•  May provide clerical support as needed 
•  Care for impounded animals and maintains the shelter facility 
• 
•  May testify in court and respond to requests for animal control information 
• 
• 

Locate and remove dead animals 
Identifies problems and solutions and makes suggestions and recommendations regarding 
changes in procedure and policy 

Investigates animal bites and completes related reports 

•  Performs related duties as required 

 
TOOLS AND EQUIPMENT USED 
Patrol vehicle, stock trailer, animal capture equipment, police radio, pager, tape recorder, facsimile 
equipment, telephone, computer aided dispatch equipment, first aid equipment, personal computer. 
 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS 
While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently required to sit and talk and hear. The 
employee is frequently required to stand, walk on a variety of surfaces, climb or balance, stoop, kneel, 
crouch, or crawl; use hands to finger, handle, or feel objects, tools, or controls; reach with hands and 
arms; climb or balance; stoop, kneel, crouch, or crawl; and taste or smell. 
 
The employee must routinely be able to lift, pull, push and/or move more than 50 pounds; 100 pounds 
with assistance, including dead and fractious animals. Specific vision abilities required by this job include 
close vision, distance vision, color vision, and peripheral vision, and the ability to adjust focus. 
 
WORK ENVIRONMENT 
While performing the duties of this job, the employee frequently works in outside weather conditions 
including rain, heat, and cold. The employee occasionally works near moving mechanical parts and 
traffic; in high, precarious places; and is occasionally exposed to wet and/or humid conditions, and foul 
odors.  The noise level in the work environment is usually moderate. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

EMPOLYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of:  

•  English usage, spelling, and punctuation 
•  Basic practices and techniques for impounding and caring for a variety of animals 
•  The geography of the City 
•  Crime scene preservation and evidence handling techniques 
•  Animal anatomy, behavior and first aid treatment 
•  Proper and safe techniques for capturing, impounding, caring for, and disposing of and 

•  Police department procedures related to animal control operations, related laws and City 

otherwise handling animals 

policies and procedures 

 
Ability to: 

•  Deal tactfully and effectively with the public 
•  Understand written and oral instructions 
•  Write clear and accurate reports 
•  Operate radio, telephone, and Computer-Aided Dispatch equipment 
•  Work effectively without direct supervision 
•  Analyze situations and take effective action 
• 
•  Perform animal capture, impounding, care and handling 
• 

Identify common breeds of dogs, cats, livestock and exotic animals and reptile 

Identify symptoms and behaviors associated with rabies and other common domestic animal 
diseases  

•  Perform vigorous physical tasks in the performance of assigned duties 

 
Minimum Qualifications 
High school graduation or equivalent and one year of experience in law enforcement or a position 
involving extensive public contact.  Experience that would provide knowledge of basic practices and 
techniques for impounding and caring for a variety of animals is desirable.   
 
Additional Requirement:  Possession of a valid California Driver License. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

COMMUNITY SERVICES OFFICER 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To assist police officers and the community by promptly responding to non-hazardous calls for service; 
to carry out assigned community relations efforts; to act as a referral source to other government and 
private agencies; and to perform related duties and responsibilities as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Receives direction from departmental management. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

Investigates all details of assigned incidents; prepares related reports. 

•  Responds to non-emergency, non-hazardous calls for service.  
• 
•  Compiles information on and reports violations of federal, state and local laws and ordinances. 
•  Assists when needed to direct traffic; issues non-moving citations and warning notices on 

vehicles; responds to traffic accidents, provide traffic control, arrange towing, take statements 
from those involved, and prepare accident diagrams and reports using computerized report 
program. 

•  Provides medical assistance as needed at the first-responder level. 
•  Assists police officers and investigators at crime scenes; assists with the collection of evidence. 
•  Assists with animal control duties as necessary. Testifies in court as necessary. 
•  Performs other routine services as required, including but not limited to assisting stranded 

motorists, assisting with non-violent crowd control, delivering subpoenas, etc. 

•  Receives and responds to public inquiries, requests for information and assistance. 
•  Manages the Police Department’s evidence system, including evidence handling, storage, 

record-keeping, inventory control, release and destruction, as well as lost-and-found property. 

•  Processes abandoned vehicles, including removal, towing and abatement procedures. 
•  Participates in crime prevention, reduction and education programs; gives presentations to 

various community, civic and school groups as requested; assists with bicycle safety programs. 

•  Maintains the department’s property inventory records. Attends City and staff meetings as 

required. 

•  Maintains assigned vehicle and equipment. 
•  Participates in Child Safety Seat Restraint Education Program. 
•  Keeps supervisor informed of problems encountered during assigned shift. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
Knowledge of: 

•  Pertinent federal, state and local laws, regulations, codes and ordinances.  
•  Criminal justice or related governmental field. 
•  Organization and functional responsibilities of a police department. Community services of 

other public and private agencies. 

•  The layout of local roads and of the locations and characteristics of various neighborhoods. 
•  Basic record-keeping and report writing. 
•  English usage, spelling, grammar and punctuation. Safe work practices. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 
Ability to: 

•  Public / community relations techniques. 

•  Read, learn, understand and apply pertinent federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. 
•  Acquire a working knowledge of various criminal and vehicle codes and police report- writing 

techniques. 
Learn standard police radio procedures and codes.  

• 
•  Obtain information through interview and observation. 
•  Observe, remember and recall detailed information, names, faces and facts. 
•  React quickly and calmly in emergency situations. 
•  Deal courteously, yet firmly and effectively with the public in police situations. Prepare accurate 

and detailed records and reports. 

•  Perform mathematical computations with accuracy.  
•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of 

work. 
Learn and utilize new skills and information to improve job performance and efficiency. 

• 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  Graduation from high school or GED. 

•  One year of experience in law enforcement or a position involving extensive public contact or 

 

Experience 

graduate from a POST Academy. 

 
Additional Requirements: 

•  Possession of a valid California Class “C” driver’s license.  
•  Graduation from a California Basic P.O.S.T. Academy desired. 

 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed in an office and field environment. Incumbent drives on surface streets and may be 
exposed to traffic and equipment hazards, adverse weather conditions, temperature and noise 
extremes, violence, heights, explosives, fumes, dusts, odors, toxic or caustic chemicals, pathogenic 
substances, vibration. 
 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Requires the mobility to work in an office and field environment. Requires the ability to sit at desk and 
intermittently walk, stand, run, climb, balance, bend, squat, twist and reach while performing office 
and field duties; lift and/or move up to 100 pounds of weight; perform simple grasping and fine 
manipulation. Must be able to maintain effective audio-visual discrimination and perception needed 
for making observations, communicating with others, reading and writing, and operating office 
equipment; a telephone to communicate verbally, a keyboard to communicate through written means, 
to review information and enter/retrieve data, to see and read characters on a computer screen. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

POLICE OFFICER 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To perform a variety of responsible law enforcement and crime prevention functions by patrolling, 
observing, and  protecting assigned areas of the City in a professional and proactive manner; to actively 
participate in an investigation from its initiation to completion; to act as a positive resource in the 
community to promote proactive crime prevention, enhance community relations, and provide 
outreach and support to all citizens; to perform a variety of special assignments in support of the Police 
Department, the City and its citizens; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the working journey level of sworn police classifications. Employees in this classification 
function at the journey level of job performance and are expected to perform the full range of assigned 
duties in an independent manner. Incumbents in · this classification receive only occasional instruction 
or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are fully competent and knowledgeable of the 
professional standards, operating procedures and policies within the Police Department. Although 
individual positions may be assigned to specialized work units or special projects, employees in this job 
class are expected to be cross trained and fully functional in all areas of sworn police work activities and 
assignments. Employees in this job class are subjected to both mental and physical stress as well as 
exposure to dangerous and uncomfortable situations as a condition of regular work assignments. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from a Police Sergeant or his/her designee 
within a framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this 
classification may provide technical and/or functional supervision when functioning in a special 
duty/assignment capacity. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Patrols designated areas of the City on foot and in patrol car on an assigned shift to conduct a 

variety of responsible law enforcement and crime prevention duties; 

•  Responds to routine or emergency calls for assistance; controls traffic; observes all suspicious 

activities/persons; and reports to superiors periodically. 

•  Provides proactive crime prevention and community outreach; acts as a resource to City's 

citizens and the general public; provides training and education to community regarding police 
activities and crime prevention techniques; making presentations and serving on committees as 
assigned.                          

•  Conducts criminal investigations from initiation to the completion of investigation; prepares 
preliminary reports of incidents and investigations to include documentation; contacts and 
interviews victims, witnesses, and suspects for details; secures statements; preserves evidence; 
follows-up on every facet of assigned investigation to ensure all activities and efforts are 
coordinated and successfully completed. 

•  Makes arrests and issues citations for violations of pertinent laws and ordinances within 

standard and accepted laws, policies, and operational regulations. 

•  Books, transports, and is charged with responsibility for the appropriate care and safety of 

detained persons. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Performs a variety of duties, functions and activities as a participant in a special duty assignment 
such as DARE, School Resource Officer, BINTF, Training Officer, or Canine Patrol; cross trains and 
maintains expertise in all areas of sworn police activities. 

•  Observes and notes all unusual or susp1c1ous situations, behaviors and events; reporting these 
circumstances and/or activities to superior officer and/or following up and gathering pertinent 
data. 

•  Controls traffic; stops unsafe and/or illegal drivers; issues traffic citations; investigates causes 
and results of accidents; renders first aid at the accident scene; serves at first response level to 
hazardous materials spills and accidents. 

•  Appears in court to present evidence and testify as to circumstances, occurrences, and the 

investigative process regarding designated cases; provides information, reports, and 
documentation to the court and its representatives in support of case development. 

•  Prepares a variety of administrative reports and documentation of activities such as accident 

reports, investigation reports, and patrol observations; establishes and maintains files and 
records in a complete and confidential manner. 

•  Participates in maintaining order, coordinating and supporting relief efforts, and protecting 

citizens/general public during a variety of emergency situations. 

•  Assists and attends to ill and/or injured individuals who may be violent, disruptive, 

unmanageable, or have a communicable disease; administers first aid, CPR, or other means of 
assistance and care. 

•  Performs other related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted law enforcement methodology and techniques to include patrol, crime 

prevention, and traffic control. 

•  Pertinent federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and guidelines governing the apprehension, 
arrest, and custody of persons accused or suspected of committing felonies and misdemeanors  

•  Rules of   evidence pertaining to search and seizure and the preservation and presentation of 

evidence. 

enforcement personnel. 

•  Proper use and care of firearms and other special equipment utilized by sworn police law 

•  Standard and accepted  law enforcement recordkeeping, documentation, and reporting 

requirements, methods and procedures. 

•  Community policing philosophy and methodology. Automated safety di patch and criminal 

• 
• 

Learn the City and departmental organizational structure, ordinances, policies, and procedures. 
Learn the location and configuration of the City's streets, landmarks, public areas, community 
facilities, and schools. 

•  Understand, interpret, and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

independent manner. 
Interview and communicate with a variety of diverse individuals and groups in a positive, 
persuasive, and effective manner. 

records systems. 

 
Ability to: 

• 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Identify potential problems/hazards, investigate and gather pertinent and relevant data, 
document conclusions and observations, and present recommendations and/or findings. 

•  Operate a variety of routine and special law enforcement equipment such as car radio, hand 
guns and other firearms, handcuffs, batons, tear gas, ammunition, chemical reagents, stroll-a-
meter, and a variety of protective devices in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Utilize a computer and designated software at a level sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Prioritize and schedule work load in a timely and effective manner for self and others. 
•  Establish and maintain a variety of documentation, records and logs. 
•  Prepare a variety of administrative documentation, forms, and reports. 
•  Provide courteous and positive community relations and neighborhood outreach. Perform 

assigned duties to include heavy lifting and sporadic but strenuous physical endeavors in a safe 
and effective manner. 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license.  
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City's driving standard policy.  
•  Completion of a P.O.S.T. certified Basic Police Academy Program.  
•  Completion of a P.O.S.T. certified Field Training Program. 
•  Possession of valid American Red Cross Basic First Aid and CPR Certificates .. 

 
May require: 

 
Experience 

•  Completion of additional designated P.O.S.T. certification in specialized areas of law 

enforcement or crime prevention pertinent to special duty assignments. 

  
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE    
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  At least one (1) year of patrol experience with a municipal or county law enforcement agency. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required 
to use hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other 
specialized equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach, 
and crouch; talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with citizens, general public, victims, 
suspects, witnesses, supervisors, and fellow employees on a continuous basis. Employee is regularly 
required to lift and/or carry and/or move objects weighing up to 25 to 35 pounds and occasionally lift 
and/or move individuals weighing more than 165 pounds. Vision requirements for the performance of 
required duties include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, 
and the ability to adjust focus. Good vision is defined as 20/100 in each eye correctable to 20/30. Night 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

vision is also required. Employees are required to be able to 9etect a variety of odors such as drugs, 
alcohol, fumes, and hazardous materials spills. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, and in traffic. The majority of the employee's 
work time may be spent driving a patrol car. Employee works in a high stress environment and is 
exposed to hazardous, volatile, and dangerous situations in the performance of required duties.  On-
going exposure to these types of environments and situations may create a high demand on an 
employee’s physical, mental and emotional well-being. Continuous contact with other staff, citizens, 
other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCHER 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To receive and provide the appropriate response to emergency and non-emergency calls for police, fire, 
EMS/rescue, animal control and after hours public works; to perform a variety of clerical functions in 
support of police and City operations; to act as a resource to visitors and the general public regarding 
routine inquiries; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class functions at the journey level of job performance.  Employees in this classification perform 
the full range of assigned duties in an independent manner.  Employees in this classification receive only 
occasional instruction or assistance as new or unusual situations arise and are fully competent and 
knowledgeable of the operating procedures and policies within the City and the Police Department.  
Employees in this job class are responsible for responding to a wide variety of calls and requests in an 
appropriate and timely manner which requires a thorough knowledge of public safety dispatch 
procedures and standards as well as excellent communication and interpersonal skills.  Employees in this 
job class may also be trained in other clerical and recordkeeping functions in order to provide 
competent back-up and additional administrative/operational support as necessary. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Public Safety Dispatch Supervisor 
within a framework of established policies and standard operating procedures. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Receives emergency and non-emergency calls for police, fire, EMS/rescue, animal control and 

after-hours public works requests; collects all pertinent information, determines nature and 
priority of call as well as location of incident, and provides appropriate response. 

•  Dispatches appropriate emergency or non-emergency service response to requests for 

assistance; refers callers to appropriate resource as necessary. 

•  Greets visitors and the general public and answers telephone; provides basic and routine 

information, takes messages, refers inquiries to appropriate staff/resource, and  follows-up to 
ensure the inquiry has been answered in an appropriate and timely manner. 

•  Maintains contact with Police Officers in the field; provides records information and responds to 

requests as necessary. 

•  Processes a variety of police documentation and forms such as arrest warrants, crime reports, 
release of impound vehicles, citations, fingerprint cards, and bicycle licenses; verifies accuracy, 
completeness, and compliance with pertinent guidelines and regulations. 

•  Maintains and updates specialized police recordkeeping system; files and retrieves information 
as necessary and upon request; enters and retrieves data from   computerized law enforcement 
network. 

•  Performs a variety of clerical functions in support of both City and Police Department 

operations; sorts, processes, and files documentation; types/word processes records, forms, and 
correspondence; prepares a variety of reports, logs, and receipts; proofs and verifies data. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Assists citizens and general public at the complaint desk by providing appropriate information 
and forms for completion; answering questions regarding the accessing of reports and records; 
receives registrations and other documents for filing and/or distribution. 

•  Monitors interview areas and holding cell when occupied; assists with the search and booking of 

suspects and prisoners as necessary and upon request.  

•  Prepares summary reports on public safety and departmental activities and emergency 

responses; maintains emergency notification data for City businesses.  

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

 
Ability to: 

•  Standard and accepted office practices, procedures, and techniques. 
•  Standard and accepted English usage, spelling, grammar and punctuation. 
•  Standard and accepted receptionist techniques and telephone etiquette. 
•  Designated computer software and its applications. 
•  Standard and accepted radio and telephone communication equipment and radio codes. 
•  Standard and accepted functions, procedures and practices of public safety operations including 

•  Basic laws, regulations and guidelines related to confidentiality issues and the release of 

police, fire, rescue and paramedic activities. 

information from law enforcement records. 

• 
• 

• 

Learn the City and departmental organizational structure, ordinances, policies, and procedures. 
Learn the location and configuration of the City’s streets, landmarks, public areas, community 
facilities and schools. 

•  Read and write English at a sufficient level for successful job performance. 
•  Understand and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an independent 

manner. 
Interview and communicate with a variety of diverse individuals in a positive, persuasive, and 
effective manner. 

•  Type/word process accurately and at a speed sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Utilize designated work processing, spreadsheet, database and other specialized software 

programs accurately and effectively. 

•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks in an effective and timely manner. 
•  Think clearly in a variety of emergency situations and respond in a timely and calming manner. 
•  Operate and utilize designated telephone communication and radio equipment and codes in an 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division 

•  Operate a variety of office machines and equipment including computer terminal, peripheral 

equipment, fax machine, teletype machine, copier and calculator. 

•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

effective and timely manner. 

accurately. 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  The ability to successfully obtain a California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System 

(C.L.E.T.S.) Certificate within one (1) year of employment within this job class. 

•  The ability to successfully obtain the Emergency Medical Dispatcher Certificate within one (1) 

•  The ability to successfully complete the P.O.S.T. Basic Dispatcher course within one (1) year of 

year of employment within this job class. 

employment within this job class. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of education, training, and experience which would likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the required knowledge and abilities would 
be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

 
Experience 

•  At least one (1) year of work experience performing clerical, receptionist, or public contact 

duties, preferably within a police or other public safety agency. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping, and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required for constant radio and telephone communications; ability 
to write and listen at the same time for timely recording of data; verbal communications required; 
ability to use a variety of office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall is 
necessary for the accurate and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Employee works in a high stress 
environment and is exposed to emergency and high demand situations in the performance of required 
duties.  Employees may be subject to rotating shifts.  Continuous contact with other staff, citizens, other 
agencies, and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 

 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

PUBLIC SAFETY DISPATCH & RECORDS SUPERVISOR   
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION   
To plan, coordinate, supervise and participate in the maintenance of the public safety/criminal records 
system and dispatch communications activities for the City; to supervise, train, and evaluate the work of 
assigned staff; to perform a variety of responsible administrative support functions for the Police Chief; 
to plan, direct, and supervise assigned special project areas; and to function as a positive and 
cooperative team member.   
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS   
This job class functions at the full supervisory level of job performance. This job class performs 
supervisory, analytical, technical and responsible administrative/secretarial work in support of the City's 
Police Department. Employees in this classification perform a variety of specialized and technical 
functions and are expected to possess in-depth knowledge of public safety dispatch, communications, 
and record keeping operations, standards, and procedures for a municipal public safety agency. 
Employees in this job class are responsible for the completion and coordination of assigned and 
on-going services as well as special project activities. In addition to performing the full range of duties   
assigned to the Public Safety Dispatchers, this job class is also responsible for supervising and training 
subordinate staff in all day-to-day activities as well as special projects/assignments. This job class 
requires excellent organizational skills, superior communications and interpersonal skills, and initiative.   
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED   
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Police Chief within a framework of 
established policies and standard operating procedures. Employees in this classification exercise direct 
supervision over assigned clerical and technical employees.   
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:   

•  Plans, coordinates, supervises and participates in receiving and initiating the appropriate 

response to emergency and non-emergency calls for police, fire, EMS/rescue, animal control and 
after-hours public works requests as well as the dispatching of appropriate emergency or 
non-emergency service resources to requests for assistance.   

•  Plans, coordinates, supervises, and participates in the maintenance and updating of the 

specialized police record keeping system to include the filing and retrieval of information as 
necessary and upon request and the entering and retrieval of data from a computerized law 
enforcement network.   

•  Performs confidential and complex secretarial and administrative duties in support of   

the Police Chief; initiating, coordinating, and following through on a variety of administrative 
and operational processes; implementing administrative details not requiring the Police Chief's 
attention; and representing the Police Chief's office as assigned.   

•  Plans, directs, coordinates, and supervises the Public Safety Dispatch work unit to include the 
completion of all work on a daily basis; supervising and training assigned staff in all aspects of 
the City's and Police Department's operational and administrative processes; end acts as the 
primary resource regarding all aspects of public safety dispatch, communications, and 
recordkeeping activities.   

•  Participates in the development and implementation of relevant policies and procedures; 

establishes schedules and methodology for the maintenance and management of recordkeeping 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

and communication system operations; implements and interprets the operating procedures 
and submits recommendations for change/modification as necessary and upon request.   

•  Participates in the recruitment and selection of assigned staff; monitors employee   

performance; prepares employee performance reviews; provides or coordinates staff training; 
and implements and/or initiates appropriate disciplinary procedures.   

•  Represents Police Chief's office; greeting and screening visitors and telephone calls to the office, 
providing requested information/support not requiring the Police Chief's attention; sorting and 
screening incoming mail, responding to requests, initiating correspondence, and disseminating 
to appropriate staff as necessary; accepts documents for signature and returns to requester in a 
timely manner.   

•  Researches inquiries, compiles pertinent information, and prepares reports, manuals, forms, 

and statistics in support of the Police Chief's office, public safety operations, and special projects 
as assigned.   

•  Coordinates activities with and provides information to other City departments, outside 
agencies, citizens, and the general public regarding the City's public safety services and 
operations as well as acting as liaison between the Police Chief and the above cited entities.   
•  Receives and responds to a variety of citizen's requests, concerns, and complaints regarding 
public safety functions and activities; gathers pertinent data, researches inquiry and initiates 
appropriate response/action and/or refers citizen to an alternative resource.   

•  Monitors interview areas and secure areas when occupied; assists with the search and booking 

of suspects and prisoners as necessary or upon request.   

•  Performs related duties as required.   

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS   
 
Knowledge of:   

•  Standard and accepted functions, procedures and practices of public safety operations including 

•  Pertinent laws, regulations and guidelines related to confidentiality issues and the release of 

police, fire, rescue, and paramedic activities.   

information from law enforcement records.   

•  City and departmental organizational structure, ordinances, policies, and procedures. Location 

and configuration of the City's streets, landmarks, public areas, community facilities, and 
schools.   

•  Standard and accepted radio and telephone communication equipment and radio codes.   
•  Standard and accepted office practices, procedures, and operations.   
•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of business letter writing and report writing.   
•  Standard and accepted financial/budgetary systems and procedures.   
•  Standard and accepted English usage, spelling, punctuation, and grammar,   
•  Designated and specialized computer software programs and their applications.   
•  Standard and accepted record keeping practices, guidelines and retention requirements for 

public safety/police records.   

•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of supervision and training.   

 
Ability to:   

•  Understand, interpret, and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

independent manner.   

•  Plan, organize, supervise, and evaluate the work of others in an effective and positive manner.   

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

Interview and communicate with a variety of individuals in a positive, persuasive, and effective 
manner.   

•  Type/word process accurately and at a speed sufficient for successful job performance.   
• 

Identify problem, gather pertinent data, analyze and evaluate alternatives, and recommend 
and/or initiate a solution.   

•  Think clearly in a variety of emergency situations and respond in a timely and calming manner.   
•  Operate a variety of office machines and equipment including computer terminal, peripheral 

equipment, fax machine, teletype machine, copier, and calculator.   

•  Operate and utilize designated telephone communication and radio equipment and codes in an 

effective and timely manner.   

•  Perform a variety of mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, 

and division as well as basic statistical analyses with speed and accuracy.   

•  Establish and maintain a variety of specialized and confidential recordkeeping systems 

effectively.   

•  Operate designated software programs including word processing, spreadsheets, databases, and 

specialized computerized network systems effectively.   

•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

manner for self and others.   

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

required duties.   
 

LICENSES OR CERTIFICATES   

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license.   
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City's driving standard policy.   
•  Possession of a California Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (C.L.E.T.S.) Certificate.   
•  Ability to successfully obtain an Emergency Medical Dispatcher Certificate within the first year of 

•  Ability to successfully obtain the P.O.S.T. Public Safety Dispatcher Training Certificate within the 

employment in this job class.   

first year of employment in this job class.   
 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of education, training, and experience which would likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities is qualifying. A typical way to obtain the required knowledge and abilities would 
be:   
 
Training   

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 
required for successful job performance. An Associate of Arts degree from an accredited college 
or university is desirable.   

•  Possession of an associate of arts degree with a major in police science, criminal justice, or a 

related is highly desirable.   

 
Experience   

•  At least three (3) years of increasingly responsible criminal records and communications 

experience in a public safety environment to include at least one (1) year of lead or supervisory 
experience.   
 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS   
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances. Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping, and lifting in the performance of assigned duties. Normal manual dexterity and 
eye-hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required. Corrected vision to normal 
range; normal hearing and talking is required for constant radio and telephone communications; ability 
to write and listen at the same time for timely recording of data; verbal communications required; 
ability to use a variety of office equipment and machines as referenced. Good memory and recall are 
necessary for the accurate and timely transfer of information.   
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS   
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment. Employee works in a high stress 
environment and is exposed to emergency and high demand situations in the performance of required 
duties. Employees subject to the possibility of rotating shifts and on call work. Continuous contact with 
other staff, citizens, other agencies, and businesses as well as the general public.   
   

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

SERGEANT 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To supervise, train and evaluate the work of assigned police officers in the conduct of all activities; to 
supervise, monitor and participate in patrolling, observing, and protecting assigned areas of the City in a 
professional and proactive manner; to coordinate and participate in an investigation from its initiation 
to completion; to act as a positive resource in the community to promote proactive  crime  prevention,  
enhance  community  relations, and provide outreach and support to all citizens; to perform a variety of  
administrative functions  in support  of the Police Department, the City and its citizens; and to function  
as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is the first line, working supervisory classification of sworn personnel in the Police 
Department. Employees in this classification perform a variety of professional and technical functions 
and are expected to possess in-depth knowledge of police operations, standards, and procedures. 
Incumbents in this job class are responsible for the day to day direction and coordination of assigned 
shifts as well as the on-going supervision of designated Police Officers. In addition to performing the full 
range of duties assigned to the Police Officer, this job class is also responsible for supervising, 
counseling, evaluating and training subordinate staff in all day to day activities as well as special duty 
assignments and emergency responses. This job class requires a high degree of professional and 
technical knowledge and expertise as well as organizational, communication, and community policing 
skills. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Police Lieutenant within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification 
exercise direct supervision over assigned Police Officers and Reserve Officers as well as technical and 
functional supervision over shift personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following:  

•  Supervises, oversees, and monitors all field activities during as assigned law enforcement shift 
• 
•  Maintains discipline and ensures that all pertinent laws, regulations, and operating 

Inspects officers and disseminates current information prior to initiating patrol activities 

policies/procedures are followed. 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in field activities and patrols on designated shift to 

conduct a variety of responsible law enforcement and crime prevention duties; responds to 
routine or emergency calls for assistance; controls traffic; observes all suspicious 
activities/persons. 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in providing proactive crime prevention and community 

outreach; acts as a resource to City's citizens and the general public; provides training and 
education to community regarding police activities and crime prevention techniques; making 
presentations and serving on committees as assigned. 

•  Supervises, monitors and participates in criminal investigations from initiation to the completion 

of investigation; prepares preliminary  reports  of  incidents  and investigations  to  include  
documentation;  contacts  and   interviews   victims, witnesses , and suspects for details; secures 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

statements; preserves evidence; follows-up on every facet of assigned investigation  to  ensure  
all  activities  and efforts are coordinated and successfully completed. 

•  Supervises, evaluates, counsels and trains assigned Police Officers on an on-going basis; 

provides input into staff development needs; acts as a resource to officers in the performance of 
field activities and community policing functions; assists officers in conducting the more 
complex investigations. 

•  Serves as Training Officer; schedules and coordinates P.O.S.T., outside, and in- service training 

courses; maintains and up-dates staff training records and documentation; and prepares 
requisitions for course fees/per diems. 

•  Makes arrests and issues citations for violations of pertinent laws and ordinances within 

standard and accepted laws, policies, and operational regulations. 

•  Books, transports, and is charged with responsibility for the appropriate care and safety of 

detained persons 

•  Controls traffic; stops unsafe and/or illegal drivers; issues traffic citations; investigates causes 

and results of accidents; renders first aid at the accident scene; may serve at first response level 
to hazardous materials spills and accidents 

•  Assists in conducting internal affairs and background investigations and responds to citizen's 

complaints as assigned and on an as needed basis 

•  Plans, directs, coordinates, and participates in providing law enforcement and security 

operations for designated public/community events. 

•  Appears in court to present evidence and testify as to circumstances, occurrences, and the 

investigative process regarding designated cases; provides information, reports, and 
documentation to the court and its representatives in support of case development. 

•  Prepares a variety of administrative reports, memoranda, correspondence, and documentation; 

establishes and maintains files and records in a complete and confidential manner. 

•  Participates in maintaining order, coordinating and supporting relief efforts, responding to 

hazardous materials spills, and protecting citizens/general public during a variety of emergency 
situations. 

•  Assists and attends to ill and/or injured individuals who may be violent, disruptive, 

unmanageable, or have a communicable disease; administers first aid, CPR, or other means of 
assistance and care. 

•  Represents the City 's Police Department to the community, neighborhoods, other agencies, 

businesses, and the general public. 

•  Performs other related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted law enforcement methodology and techniques to include patrol, crime 

prevention, and traffic control. 

•  Standard and accepted criminal investigative techniques and methodology to include crime 

scene investigation, interrogation, fingerprinting and arrests. 

•  Pertinent federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and guidelines governing the apprehension, 
arrest, and custody of persons accused or suspected of committing felonies and misdemeanors. 

•  Rules of evidence pertaining to search and seizure and the preservation and presentation of 

evidence. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Proper and safe use and care of firearms and other special equipment utilized by sworn police 

law enforcement personnel. 

•  Standard and accepted law enforcement recordkeeping, documentation, and reporting 

requirements, methods and procedures. 

•  Community policing philosophy and methodology. 
•  Automated safety dispatch and criminal records systems. 
•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of employee supervision, evaluation, and 

•  City and departmental organizational structure, ordinances, policies, and procedures.  
• 

Location and configuration of the City 's streets, landmarks, public areas, community facilities, 
and schools. 

training.   

 
Ability to: 

•  Understand, interpret, and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

independent manner. 
Interview and communicate with a variety of individuals and groups in a positive, persuasive, 
and effective manner. 

• 

•  Supervise and evaluate the work of others in an effective, productive and positive manner. 
• 

Identify and analyze problem/situation in a timely and accurate manner; gather and research 
pertinent data/information; evaluate facts, evidence, and alternatives; and recommend 
appropriate course of action. 

•  Operate a variety of routine and special law enforcement equipment such as car radio, hand 
guns and other fire arms, handcuffs, batons, tear gas, ammunition, chemical reagents, stroll-a-
meter, and a variety of protective devices in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Utilize a computer and designated software at a level sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Prioritize ·and schedule work load in a timely and effective manner for self and others. 
•  Establish and maintain a variety of documentation, records and logs. 
•  Prepare a variety of administrative documentation, forms, and reports. 
•  Provide courteous and positive community relations and neighborhood outreach. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy lifting and sporadic but strenuous physical endeavors 

in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

of required duties. 

  
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license.  
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City's driving standard policy.  
•  Completion of a P.O.S.T. certified Basic Police Academy Program.  
•  Completion of a P.O.S.T. certified Field Training Officer Program.  
•  Completion of the American Red Cross Basic First Aid and CPR Certificates 
•  Ability to successfully obtain the P.O.S.T.  Intermediate Certification during the first year of 

•  Ability to successfully obtain the P.O.S.T. Supervisory Certification during the first two (2) years 

employment in this job class. 

of employment in this job class. 

 
 
 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  Possession of an associate of arts degree with a major in police science, criminal justice, or a 

related field or significant coursework in law enforcement is desirable. 

 
Experience 

•  At least three (3) years of work experience with a California law enforcement agency performing 

patrol operations and including at least one (1) year of service with the Gridley Police 
Department. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other specialized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach, and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with citizens, general public, victims, suspects, 
witnesses, supervisors, and fellow employees on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to 
lift and/or carry and/or move objects weighing up to 25 to 35 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move 
individuals weighing more than 165 pounds. Vision requirements for the performance of required duties 
include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception, and the ability to 
adjust focus. Good vision is defined as 20/100 in each eye correctable to 20/30. Night vision is also 
required. Employees are required to be able to detect a variety of odors such as drugs, alcohol, fumes, 
and hazardous materials spills. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, and in traffic. The majority of the employee's 
work time may be spent driving a patrol car. Employee works in a high stress environment and is 
exposed to hazardous, volatile, and dangerous situations in the performance of required duties. On-
going exposure to these types of environments and situations may create a high demand on an 
employee's physical, mental and emotional well-being.  Continuous contact with other staff, citizens, 
other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 

GPOA 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 
Date: 

To: 

From: 
 
Subject: 

City Council Agenda Item #4 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Council   

Paul Eckert, City Administrator/Finance Director 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
 
Closed 
 
Emergency 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-024: A Resolution of the City Council of the City of Gridley 
Adjusting Compensation for Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and 
Unrepresented Employees 

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the City Council adopt Resolution No. 2019-R-024 regarding employment 
conditions for Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented employees (MMCU). 
 
Background 
The City’s current resolution with the MMCU expired on June 30, 2019.  Due to the current circumstance of 
all Department Directors being on limited-time contracts or being vacant, Department Directors and the 
Administrator WILL NOT receive increases.  The City has completed salary and benefit discussions with the 
GPOA and the IBEW in late September.  In an effort to encourage promotion and retention of experienced 
City staff, the City’s Management positions have specified and set gaps between Union subordinates and 
respective management positions.  The proposed attachment contains modest adjustments for the Police 
Lieutenant, Assistant Finance Director, and the Recreation Coordinator of 3% effective July 1, 2019, 3% 
effective July 1, 2020 and 3% effective July 1, 2021.   These adjustments will keep these supervisors at a set 
difference from their subordinate employees.  A floating holiday has been traded for the new Martin Luther 
King Jr. holiday.  The remaining substantive provisions of the current resolution remain unchanged. Finally, it 
should be emphasized that the attached Resolution results in an approximate decrease of $30,000 in the 
permanent Police Chief’s wages, including a significant salary reduction and the elimination of all certification 
pay.  The clearly defined and set wage differences from their subordinates, in addition to the elimination of 
the certification pay, will prevent another instance of rampant growth of a Department Director salary. 
 
Fiscal Impact 
The wages changes and financial impacts for the IBEW, POA, and MMCU are described below.  Funds are 
available for all three groups.  
 

Council Authorized Limit 
Funds 
Electric 
Water 
Sewer 
General Fund and Misc. 
Total 

 
FY 20 Year #1 (3%) 
$45,978  
$14,779  
$14,185  
$128,292  
$203,233.74  

FY 21 Year (3% IBEW) 
FY 21 Year (2% POA) 
$47,356.94  
$15,222.61  
$14,610.60  
$88,093.74  
$165,283.88  

 
FY 22 Year #3 (2%) 
$32,518.43  
$10,452.86  
$10,032.61  
$89,855.61  
$142,859.51  

 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals  
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding all 
business transactions and financial matters.   
 
Attachment - Resolution No. 2019-R-024 with Attachments 

 

 

 

 

 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 
A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY ADJUSTING COMPENSATION FOR 

MANAGEMENT, MID-MANAGEMENT, CONFIDENTIAL AND UNREPRESENTED EMPLOYEES 

 
WHEREAS, the City Council, through its negotiator, has been participating in labor negotiation 

with various bargaining units of the City’s workforce; and 

       WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to make adjustments to compensation and benefits for  
Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented employees, and 

 

       WHEREAS, the employees comprising the Management, Mid-Management, Confidential staff  
have been consulted regarding changes in compensation and benefits. 

       NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby resolved by the City Council of the City of Gridley as follows: 
 

1.  Management personnel shall include full time personnel in the positions of City Administrator,  
Finance Director, Public Works Director, Electric Utility Director, Police Chief, and Electric/ Public 
Works Director 

2.  Mid-Management personnel shall include the Police Lieutenant, Assistant Finance Director, and 

the Recreation Coordinator.  Confidential Personnel does not include any employees. 

3.  Unrepresented personnel (part time hourly and temporary) shall include the positions of 

Recreation Leader, Recreation Aid and IT Manager.  Unrepresented personnel shall receive 
hourly compensation as described in Exhibit A and benefits provided by law.  These positions do 
not receive benefits provided to full time employees as described in Exhibit B. 

4.  Management, Mid-Management and Confidential personnel shall be eligible for benefits 

described in Exhibit B as specified. 

5.  All Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented job descriptions 
represented by this resolution are attached hereto and made a part hereof in Exhibit C. 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced passed and adopted by the City 

Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019, by the following 
vote: 
 
AYES:             COUNCILMEMBERS              

 

 

 

NOES:            COUNCILMEMBERS              

ABSENT:        COUNCILMEMBERS               

ABSTAIN:       COUNCILMEMBERS              

 

 
 

 

 

 

ATTEST: 
 
______________________   
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

______________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

MMCU 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

Exhibit A 
Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented 
Salary Schedule 

 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

 

MMCU 

Compensation Plan for Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented Employees 
Revised October 7, 2019 (effective 7/1/19) 

Jab Classification 
Management: 
City Administrator *existing contract 
Electric Utility/Public Works Director *existing contract 
Police Chief *existing contract 
Electric Utility Director (20% higher than Elect. Sup) Vacant, to be filled later 
Finance Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 
Police Chief (15% higher than Police Lieutenant) -Vacant, to be filled later 
Public Works Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 

Mid-Management: 
Police Lieutenant (15%higher than Police Sergeant) 
Assistant Finance Director (23%lower than Police Lieutenant) 

Confidential: 
None 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

By Contract 
By Contract 
By Contract 

10,350 
11,526 
11,526 
12,157 
10,019 
10,019 
10,019 

7,741 
5,612 

7,973 
5,780 

8,212 
5,954 

8,458 
6,132 

8,712 
6,316 

Part-Time Unrepresented: 
Recreation Coordinator -hrly w/benefits per Council action 
Recreation Aid II 
Recreation Aid I 
Information Technology Manager (By Contract) 

Hourly 

18.54 
12.60 
12.00 
33.66 

Compensation Plan for Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented Employees 
Revised October 7, 2019 (effective 7/1/20) 

Job Classification 
Manaeement: 
City Administrator *existing contract 

Electric Utility/Public Works Director *existing contract 
Police Chief *existing contract 

Electric Utility Director (20% higher than Elect. Sup) Vacant, to be filled later 
Finance Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 
Police Chief (15% higher than Police Lieutenant) -Vacant, to be filled later 
Public Works Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 

Mid-Manaeement: 

Police Lieutenant (16% higher than Police Sergeant) 
Assistant Finance Director (23%lower than Police Lieutenant) 

Confidential: 
None 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

By Contract 
By Contract 
By Contract 

10,350 
11,526 
11,526 
12,157 
10,320 
10,320 
10,320 

TBD (7 cities) 
3%increase 
3%increase 
3%increase 

7,973 

5,780 

8,212 
5,954 

8,458 
6,132 

8,712 
6,316 

8,974 
6,506 

Part-Time Unrepresented: 

Recreation Coordinator -hrly w/benefits per Council action 

Recreation Aid II 
Recreation Aid I 
Information Technology Manager (By Contract) 

Hourly 

19.10 
12.98 
12.36 
33.66 

Compensation Plan for Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented Employees 
Revised October 7, 2019 (effective 7/1/21) 

Job Classification 
Manaeement: 
City Administrator *exisiting contract 
Electric Utility/Public Works Director *existing contract 
Police Chief *existing contract 
Electric Utility Director (20%higher than Elect. Sup) Vacant, to be filled later 
Finance Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 
Police Chief (15% higher than Police Lieutenant) -Vacant, to be filled later 
Public Works Director (Equal to Police Chief) Vacant, to be filled later 

Mid-Manaeement: 
Police Lieutenant (15%higher than Police Sergeant) 
Assistant Finance Director (23%lower than Police Lieutenant) 

Confidential: 
None 

Step 1 

Step 2 

Step 3 

Step 4 

Step 5 

By Contract 
By Contract 
By Contract 

10,350 
11,526 
11,526 
12,157 
10,526 
10,526 
10,526 

TBD (7 cities) 
2%increase 
2% increase 
2% increase 

8,132 
5,896 

8,376 
6,073 

8,628 
6,255 

8,886 
6,443 

9,153 
6,636 

Part-Time Unrepresented: 
Recreation Coordinator -hrly w/ benefits per Council action 
Recreation Aid II 
Recreation Aid I 
Information Technology Manager (By Contract) 

Hourlv 

19.48 
13.24 
12.61 
33.66 

Exhibit B 
Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented 
Benefits 
 
1.  Cafeteria Plan 
The City has established a cafeteria plan administered by a third party. 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

2.  Salary Adjustments 
Effective July 1, 2019 Management and Mid-Management employees will receive a 3% increase.   
Effective July 1, 2020 Management and Mid-Management employees will receive a 3% increase.  
Effective July 1, 2021 Management and Mid-Management employees will receive a 2% increase. 
 
3.  Tuition Reimbursement 
Management, Mid-Management and Confidential Personnel shall be eligible for educational cost 
reimbursement for job related college level courses taken outside of regular work hours.  Classes shall 
be subject to prior approval by the City Administrator.  The cost shall not exceed the equivalent cost of 
registration or tuition for one individual taking one (1) class at Chico State University per semester (up to 
two semesters per year). The individual shall be responsible for additional costs for books, etc.  
Reimbursement is to be made following satisfactory completion of class with a grade of 2.5 or above, on 
a 4-point scale. 
 
4.  Sick Leave Incentive Program 
Management, Mid-management and Confidential Employees will receive a sick leave incentive payment 
of $200 per year for said employees who have not used more than three (3) days of sick leave during the 
previous 12 months (December 1 – November 30) of continuous employment with the City.  The 
incentive is payable during the month of December each year. Unrepresented employees are not 
eligible for the sick leave incentive program. 
 
5.  Management Certifications 
The following incentive program is adopted to promote retention of management personnel.  (Not 
available to employees hired after August 16, 2010) 
 

 

 
 

Position 
City Administrator 
Electric Utility Director 
 
Finance Director 
Police Chief  
 
Public Works Director 
Recreation Coordinator 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

$ Amount 

Certificate 
Not applicable 
Rubber Glove                                See employment agreement 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Not applicable   
Not applicable 

See employment agreement 

 

 
6.  Bilingual Pay 
Management, Mid-Management and the Confidential Employees who can demonstrate conversational 
fluency in Spanish, Punjabi or Hmong languages will be entitled to an additional flat rate incentive of 
$110 per month.  
 
7.  Retirement Health Care Coverage 
This benefit is no longer available. 
 

 

MMCU 

 
8.  Benefits Available Upon Retirement or Separation 
Following is a listing of benefits and their availability upon retirement or separation.  This listing is not 
exhaustive and is only provided as a guide relating to sick and vacation accruals (if any) and remaining 
balances in the cafeteria plan (if any).  Where known, other benefits that extend beyond the retirement 
date of the employee are also included (dental and health insurance). 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

Vacation: Balances available at the time of retirement or separation are fully accrued to the retiring 
employee.  The employee, at their option, may apply the value equivalent of the vacation accrual to the 
following: 

 

 

• 

“Cash out” the value of the vacation accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions.  This 
would apply to anywhere between 0% and 100% of available balances. 

 

Sick Leave: Balances are available to the employee upon the retirement into the CalPERS retirement 
system within 120 days of retirement from the City.  If the employee retires from the City to CalPERS 
retirement in this time, the following options are available to the employee: 
 

• 

“Cash out” the value of the sick leave accrual, less any applicable taxes and deductions for 
employees retiring or separating for any reason.  This would apply to anywhere between 0% and 
100% of available balances. 

•  Request the City, through a CalPERS form, to convert the sick leave accrue to service credits at 
the per hour equivalent described by CalPERS.  This would apply to anywhere between 0% and 
100% of the available balances. 

•  The employee may utilize 1and 2 above in any combination but only up to the total available 

accrual at the time of retirement for the employee. 

 

Dental insurance:  The employee, upon separation, may apply with the City for COBRA benefits for 
dental insurance.  The payment of insurance premiums would be the obligation of the employee upon 
retirement at the rate described in COBRA for a period of up to 18 months (the available time period is 
also described by COBRA). 

9.  Deferred Compensation 
Employees are eligible to voluntarily participate in deferred compensations plans offered by the City.  
The City will not match deferred compensation contributions for personnel enrolled in a deferred 
compensation program unless specified in an individual employment agreement. 
 
10. Life Insurance 
Life Insurance for Management and Mid-Management personnel shall be $100,000 and Confidential 
personnel shall be $50,000. 
 
11. Administrative Leave 
Management personnel who are not eligible for overtime pay or the accrual of compensatory time off 
shall be entitled to administrative leave. The City Administrator, Finance Director, Public Works Director, 
Police Chief and Electric Director, shall be entitled to one hundred twenty (120) hours of paid 
administrative leave each fiscal year.  The Police Lieutenant, Assistant Finance Director, and Recreation 
Coordinator shall be entitled to 80 hours of paid administrative leave each fiscal year. All unused 
administrative leave shall be paid in cash to the affected management and mid-management employees 

 

MMCU 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

at his/her hourly rate of pay.  The payment for such cash out will be paid by June 30th of the fiscal year.  
There shall be no accrual of administrative leave from one fiscal year to another. 
 
12. Longevity Pay 
The following percentage will be added to the employee’s base salary upon completion of the following 
years of consecutive service: 
 

Years of Service  
10 years of service 
15 years of service 
20 years of service 
25 years of service 

Total Longevity Pay 
1% of salary 
2% of salary 
3% of salary 
4% of salary 

 
13. Health and Medical Benefits 
City Medical Plans 
The City shall provide the following medical plans: 

Anthem Blue Cross HMO – High Option (HMO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 
Anthem Blue Cross PPO – High Option (PPO 1 as outlined in 8-11-14 Company provided summary) 
 
Employee Contributions 
Employees shall contribute the following dollar amounts plus 20% of any premium increase for their 
selected Blue Cross Plan: 

Employee: 
 
Employee + One: 
Employee + Family: 

$64.57 
$104.14 
$137.88 

 
However, in no event shall employee contributions exceed the following monthly contribution: 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

       

 
 
 
 

$100.00 
$150.00 
$200.00 

Employee + One:                                
Employee + Family:                             

              Employee:                                                
       
 

 
 
 
 
In Lieu Health Plan Contributions 
Any employee who submits a written request to waive health insurance coverage and the City 
contribution to the cafeteria plan may do so provided they have proof of other health insurance 
coverage.  Such employee shall receive fifty-percent (50%) of the 2014 monthly premium value of the 
plan tier for which the employee waives coverage, i.e. Employee Only ($728), Employee +1 ($1460), 
Family ($1,897), and this payment shall be allocated to employee's payroll or to one of the City's tax 
deferred IRS plans provided herein. An employee may opt out of health coverage only during the regular 
open enrollment period. 

IRS 125 Plan/Flexible Saving Accounts 
To the extent provided by the applicable IRS regulations, an employee shall have the option to designate 
salary to the IRS Section 125 Plan during open enrollment for such plan.  The City currently uses 
American Fidelity Company. 
 

 

MMCU 

 

  

 

 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

Vision Plan 
City agrees to participate in the VSP vision plan for employees. 

 

 

Employee PERS Obligation 
For employees hired after July 1, 2010 the City shall not make any contribution to the employees PERS 
obligation as established by the PERS agreement. 

14. Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) 
The use of terms “Classic Member” and “New Member” shall be as defined by CalPERS and the Public 
Employee Pension Reform Act of 2013 (PEPRA).  
 
“Classic Member” is defined as any of the following: 

•  A new hire that was brought into CalPERS membership for the first time before January 1, 2013. 
•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to January 
1, 2013, and is eligible for reciprocity. 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 
rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of less than six months. 

 
“New Member” is defined in Government Code section 7522.04(f) as any of the following: 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who has no prior membership in a qualifying public retirement system; or 

•  A new hire who is brought into CalPERS membership for the first time on or after January 1, 

2013, and who was a member with another qualifying public retirement system prior to January 
1, 2013, and is not eligible for reciprocity; or 

•  A member who first established CalPERS membership prior to January 1, 2013, and who is 

rehired (by a different CalPERS employer) after a break in service of greater than six months. 
 

Classic Member Retirement Formulas 
The 2% at 55 (3% at 50 for safety) PERS formula shall be provided for Classic Member employees hired 
prior to January 1, 2012. 
 
For employees hired prior to July 1, 2010, the City has implemented the retirement benefit known as 
“Final Year Compensation”, as described in Section 20042 of the Government Code.  Employees hired 
on or after July 1, 2012, shall not be eligible for “Final Year Compensation”. 
 
New Member Retirement Formula 

•  2% at 62 retirement formula shall be provided for all New Member employees. 
•  2.7% at 57 retirement formula shall be provided for all New Safety Member employees 
•  New member pension shall be calculated on the 36 highest paid consecutive months. 

Employee Contribution 
Employees classified as Classic Members: 

Miscellaneous and 9% for Safety). 

quarter of each calendar year. 

•  Effective July 1, 2014 the employee contribution shall be the PERS employee share (7% for 

•  Shall be notified of the monthly contribution rate for the following fiscal year in the first 

 

MMCU 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

 

Employees classified as New (PEPRA) Members: 

•  Shall pay 50% of the PERS “normal costs” rounded to the nearest quarter of 1 percent (as 

defined in PEPRA). (PERS “normal cost” is the employer plus employee share) 

•  Shall be notified of the monthly contribution rate for the following fiscal year in the first 

quarter of each calendar year. 

 

All applicable contributions above shall be made through payroll deduction on a pre-tax basis. 
 
Opt-out of PERS Retirement   
At the May 20, 2019, Gridley City Council meeting the City Council authorized Management Employees, 
including the City Administrator, the opportunity to opt-out of PERS and in its place participate in the 
City’s existing ICMA-RC 457 Plan.  As part of the opt-out, the City will provide a contribution of 8% of 
salary to the Gridley ICMA-RC 457 Plan.  The City will also provide up to a 2% matching contribution to 
the ICMA-RC 457 Plan for Management employees who specifically select to opt-out of the PERS 
system.   
 
15. Military Service Credit Option 
The CITY agrees to make available for all employees the Military Service Credit Option.  The Plan is 
described in Section 20930.3 of California Public Employee’s Retirement Law.  The cost of implementing 
the Military Service Credit Option will be the sole responsibility of the employee. 

16. Employer Paid Member Contribution 
New employees hired after July 1, 2010 shall not be eligible for EPMC. 
 
17. Cell Phone Allowance 
City will provide $75 per month for Management and Mid-Management employees for cell phone 
reimbursement. 
 
18. Short Term Disability 
The City has implemented a Short-Term Disability program at no cost to employees. 

 

 

19. Uniform Allowance 
The Police Chief and Police Lieutenant shall receive the uniform allowance as specified per employment 
contract. 
 
20. Holiday Entitlement 
The following are guaranteed holidays for which all regular and probationary employees will be entitled 
to time off with pay: 
 
 

 

 

 

New Year's Day  
Martin Luther King Jr. Day 
President's Day  
Memorial Day 
 
Independence Day 
Labor Day 
 
Thanksgiving Day 
Day after Thanksgiving 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

January 1 
Third Monday in January 
Third Monday in February 
Last Monday in May 
July 4 
First Monday in September 
Designated Thursday in November 

MMCU 

 

 

Last Working Day before Christmas 
Christmas Day 
 
Last Working Day before New Year's Day 
Floating Holidays (2) 

 

 

 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

December 25 

 
When any of the above holidays falls on a Sunday, the Monday following shall be observed as the 
Holiday.  When any of the above Holidays falls on a Saturday, the employee shall receive the preceding 
normal workday off with pay.  Other provisions for observing Holidays may be agreed to by mutual 
consent of the parties. 
 
21. Vacation 
Each regular employee in the classified service shall be entitled to: 
 

 
 
 
 
 

        
 
 
 
 

 Max Accrual 
160 hours 
240 hours 
320 hours 
400 hours 

Rate in Hours      
80 hours per year 
120 hours per year 
160 hours per year 
200 hours per year 

Years of Service    
0 through 5 years 
6 through 10 years 
11 through 20 years 
21+ years 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Vacation Accumulation  
Earned vacation is credited monthly at rates that are based upon length of continuous employment.  An 
employee who has exceeded the maximum vacation accrual (for his or her length of employment) will 
be ineligible to earn additional vacation credit. Monthly vacation accrual would resume after the 
accumulated balance is reduced below the maximum accrual.  Management and Mid-Management 
employees may request an exception to this vacation accumulation rule to the City Administrator or City 
Council due to extenuating circumstances such as; workload, personnel shortages, etc. 
 
Unused Vacation 
Employees whose employment with the CITY is terminated for any reason shall, at the time of 
termination, receive pay for any unused vacation period previously earned. 

Vacation Buy Back 
Employees may choose to “cash out” vacation accrual (not to exceed eighty (80) hours) provided the 
employee submits such request in writing to the Finance Director on or before June 1st each fiscal year, 
and such request is approved by the City Administrator.  The payment for such cash out will be paid by 
June 30th of the fiscal year. 
 
22. Sick Leave 
The CITY shall not require an employee to take vacation in lieu of sick leave or leave of absence due to 
illness. 

23. Employee Obligation to Communicate with Employer While on Leave 
Employee shall have the obligation to reasonably communicate with the City when Employee is absent 
from work due to leave. Employee’s obligation to communicate during vacation leave shall be at 
Employee’s reasonable discretion, and shall not be a requirement subject to these provisions. At all 
other times and for all other types of leave, Employee shall be under a duty to return phone calls and 
other electronic communications from the City from time to time related to Employee’s leave status as 
well as to respond to the City’s questions concerning matters relevant to Employee’s job with the City. 

 

 

MMCU 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

To the extent physically able to do so, Employee shall be obligated to return phone call promptly and 
within 24 hours if Employee is unable to respond to the telephone when the call is initially placed. As to 
other electronic communications, employee shall promptly respond within 24 hours (again, assuming 
Employee is physically able to do so). Additionally, Employee shall, to the extent physically able to do so, 
make themselves personally available to discuss with the City Employee’s job status and matters related 
thereto as well as to discuss matters relevant to and related to Employee’s job with the City. Employee 
shall report to their regular place of employment or such other location reasonably located within the 
City as the City may direct from time to time to meet with the City representatives. If Employee is 
required to physically present themselves, they shall be compensated for time spent during such 
meetings as if they were actually performing work for the City (even though the purpose of such 
meetings shall be for purposes of communication and not to perform work). Employee shall physically 
report for face-to-face communications with the City upon 72 hours or more notification of the City’s 
request for a meeting. Except for vacation leave, the Employee shall provide the City with a current 
telephone number and mailing address at all times while on leave. Employee’s failure to communicate 
with the City as described above shall be grounds for discipline up to and including termination. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

MMCU 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-024 

Exhibit C 
Management, Mid-Management, Confidential and Unrepresented 
Job Descriptions 
 
Assistant Finance Director 
City Administrator/City Clerk 
Electric Utility Department Director 
Finance Director 
Police Chief 
Police Lieutenant 
Public Works Director 
Recreation Aide 
Recreation Coordinator 
 

 

MMCU 

ASSISTANT FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general direction, assists the Finance Director in managing, directing, and supervising the 
activities of the Finance Department. Provides input as to policy development and is expected to 
explain/interpret policy to other employees in the Finance Department and to employees in various City 
Departments. An employee in this class supervises and participates in business services including various 
technical accounting and fiscal record management functions utilizing both manual and computerized 
systems and oversite procedures relating to all sections of Finance Department.  Leads the processing of 
accounts payable invoices and payments and prepare necessary reports.  The Assistant Director 
participates in the maintenance of the general ledger and subsidiary ledgers providing billing and 
collections operational oversight with an emphasis on customer service.  The Assistant Director also 
provides oversight of business license functions and is expected to function as a positive and 
cooperative Team Member.   
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
Employees in this classification are fully competent and knowledgeable in all areas of utility billing, 
accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, and general ledger bookkeeping.  Employees in this 
classification must possess basic knowledge of the technical accounting functions in order to act as a 
resource to others in the performance of responsible technical/clerical accounting assignments.  This job 
class also requires excellent organizational skills, communication skills, and a high level of attention to 
detail. 
 
SUPERVISION 
Employees in this classification receive general supervision from the Finance Director within a 
framework of established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification 
provide technical and/or functional supervision over accounting and billing staff. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plans, directs and supervises accounting and utility billing staff in the Finance Department. 
•  Trains clerical staff, temporary workers and/or volunteers in the City’s Finance Department on 

the operations, procedures and practices within the department as assigned. 

•  Recommends controls to ensure the reliability of the system and integrity of the data and 

ensures implemented processes continue to support the financial system reporting and 
functional capabilities. 

•  Plan, train, oversee, organize and direct electric, water, and wastewater utility billing, revenue 

protection, meter reading, field services, customer service, and business licensing activities. 

•  Assists the Finance Director with special projects and reporting assignments that are broad in 
scope, requiring considerable use of independent judgment and initiative in making difficult 
technical decisions. 

•  Participates in the selection, supervision, continuous improvement, evaluation and approved 
progressive discipline of personnel; assists in the design and implementation of motivational 
programs; facilitates staff training and professional development; coaches, recommends and 
implements goals and objectives. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Plans, monitors, evaluates work, reviews workload, status of projects and availability of 

supervised personnel for assignments. 

•  Assist the Finance Director and work in close coordination with accounting staff during financial 

budgeting and audits.  

•  Schedules, assigns and oversees work processes to meet regular and delinquent billing 

schedules; analyzes and plans for potential problems. 

•  Reporting complex problems to the Finance Director and providing alternative solutions to by 

analyzing and initiating and/or coordinating changes or updates to policies and procedures. 

•  Resolves the most complex problems involving customer complaints, billing, statements, fees, 

payments and other service-related problems. 

•  Oversite of receivables from licenses, permits, recreation fees and other City revenue accounts. 
•  Acts as a liaison to field personnel to initiate or resolve issues relating to high or low bill 

investigations, meter reliability, disconnections and reconnections of water service. 

•  Reviews and approves cash receipt and utility billing adjustments to customer accounts 

prepared by employees that are supervised. 

•  Actively supervises incoming calls and takes the lead role in providing outstanding customer 

service through innovation, staffing, active participation and continuous improvement efforts. 

•  Trains others in and supervises cash handling to ensure compliance with City standards and 

procedures. 

•  Oversees and monitors the City’s processing of accounts payable; preparing purchase orders; 

verifying invoices against receiving documents for accuracy; coding accounts payable for 
departmental responsibility. 

•  Oversees and monitors in auditing incoming invoices and supporting documentation to verify 

accuracy and adherence to legal mandates and operational guidelines; prepares and issues 
checks; processes manual check requests. 

•  Records and maintains appropriate controls over purchase orders and accounts payable system, 

auditing and financial analysis, grant accounting and special reports. 

•  Calculates business license fees and fines and administers and assigns the business license 
process while ensuring that all entities conducting business within the City have a required 
business license. 

•  Develops and maintains positive public relations with emphasis on customer service. 
•  Participates as a member of the Finance Department management team to assist in developing 

and enforcing department policies. 
•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
In addition to the above knowledge and abilities, this classification also requires: 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Principles of organization, management, and effective supervision. 
•  Customer service, customer billing, and collection techniques. 
•  Modern methods of records management. 
•  Utility rate structures and schedules. 
•  Safe work practices and related regulations. 
•  Principles of public speaking, conflict resolution, and excellent customer service. 
•  City’s organization, policies, operations, and services. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Standard and accepted accounts payable, accounts receivable, collections, and general financial 

systems and practices.  
 

Ability to: 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
•  Develop logical, concise and clear reports and correspondence; use standard business English, 

spelling and punctuation. 
Learn and understand pertinent laws, codes, regulations and guidelines governing fiscal 
recordkeeping and reporting for municipalities. 
Interact with the public effectively and courteously, with excellent face-to face and telephone 
communications 

• 

• 

•  Explain policies and utility rates to customers. 
• 
•  Audit, verify and transfer large quantities of numbers and related data accurately and at a speed 

Learn and understand the City’s organization, policies, operations and services. 

sufficient for successful job performance. 

•  Operate designated software programs including word processing, spreadsheets and databases 

effectively. 

manner for self and others. 

required duties. 

•  Meet the physical requirements necessary to perform required duties in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective work relationships with those contacted in the performance of 

•  Organize and prioritize a variety of tasks for self and others in an effective and timely manner. 
• 

Identify problems/issues, collect relevant data, analyze options according to established criteria, 
and recommend appropriate course of action within prescribed alternatives. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license and possession of a safe 

driving record per the City’s driving standards policy. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these abilities and knowledge would be: 

 
Training 

 
Experience 

•  High school diploma or equivalent supplemented with coursework in accounting, fiscal records 

management or a closely related field. Associate degree in applicable field of Business preferred. 

•  At least five (5) years of full-time increasingly responsible relevant banking, accounting or office 

experience which included work experience in customer service, general administration or 
municipal utility billing, of which at least one (1) year must have been served in a supervisory 
capacity. 
 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking short distances.  Minimal twisting, 
bending, stooping and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  Normal manual dexterity and eye-
hand coordination required; repeated hand-wrist movement required.  Corrected vision to normal 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

range; normal hearing and talking is required; verbal communications required; ability to use a variety of 
office equipment and machines as referenced.  Good memory and recall are necessary for the accurate 
and timely transfer of information. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other staff, 
citizens, other agencies and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

 

 

CITY ADMINISTRATOR/CITY CLERK 
Job Description 

DEFINITION 
Subject to the provisions of the City Code and applicable policies and procedures, to serve as Chief 
Administrative Officer and the City Clerk of the City; to perform the statutory duties established for 
the position of City Clerk within the  Municipal Code; to plan, direct, supervise, coordinate and 
manage all activities of the City Clerk's Office; to administer the provisions of various State laws; to be 
responsible for human resources, labor relations, purchasing and risk management functions of the 
City; and to perform related duties and responsibilities as required. 

SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Receives policy direction from the Mayor and City Council.  May exercise administrative direction over 
department and division heads. 

EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

City Administrator Duties 

•  Directs and participates in the development and implementation of goals, objectives, policies 

and procedures related to the overall administrative activities and operations of the City. 

•  Guides the organizational development of the City in response to City growth and changing 

requirements and expectations of citizens. 

•  Administers laws, rules and regulations governing City operations; interprets, analyzes and 

explains policies, procedures and programs to City staff and the public; confers with residents, 
taxpayers, businesses and other individuals, groups and outside agencies having an interest or 
potential interest in affairs of City concern. 

•  Within City policy, recommends appropriate service and staffing levels; allocates resources 

accordingly. 

•  Selects, supervises, motivates and evaluates the performance of division heads; implements 

disciplinary action and termination as appropriate. 

•  Directs and supervises the administration of City offices, departments and agencies; assigns 

special projects to department and division heads; confers with department and division heads 
concerning administrative and operational problems; develops appropriate decisions or 
recommendations. 

•  Provides for all City Clerk services and provides administrative oversight of, human resources, 

labor relations, purchasing and risk management functions of the City. 

•  Attends meetings of City Council and participates in Council discussions; informs City Council of 

financial conditions, program progress, and present and future needs of the City; ensures 
Council reports and agendas are developed and posted appropriately. 

•  Prepares, submits for approval, and administers the annual budget and capital improvement 

program. 

•  Develops and implements the City’s economic development plan. 
•  Serves as Redevelopment Agency, Enterprise Zone and Recycling Marketing Zone; seeks and 

•  Oversees human resources system operations, ensuring compliance with all applicable policies, 

secures program funding. 

procedures, laws and regulations. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

appropriate. 

operations. 

 

City Clerk Duties 

Council. 

•  Evaluates and administers labor organization contracts. 
•  Prepares or directs the preparation of annual financial and administrative activity reports and 

others as appropriate. 

•  Responds to the most difficult or sensitive complaints and requests for information. 

Represents the City at private and public sector meetings and events. 

•  Gives presentations to various agencies, civic and community groups to discuss issues of 

relevance to City operations. 

•  Coordinates City activities with other governmental agencies and outside organizations as 

•  Keeps abreast of new trends, legislation and developments in municipal administration and 

•  Plan and direct the publication, filing, indexing, and safekeeping of all proceedings of the 

•  Record and publish all ordinances. 
•  Attest and certify various City documents. 
•  Serve as custodian of the City Seal. 
•  Plan and direct municipal elections consolidated with County elections. Serve as a 
filing officer for required disclosure under the Political Reform Act. Serve as filing 
officer for claims and legal actions against the City. 

•  Plan and direct the maintenance and safekeeping of all historical and official 

municipal records and documents on a City-wide basis. 

•  Respond to a variety of inquiries and requests for information regarding past City Council 

actions and documents. 

•  Direct the preparation, organization, printing and distribution of the agenda for City Council 

•  Supervise and participate in the keeping of proceedings, ordinances, resolutions, and minute 

•  Develop and implement systems, policies and procedures. 
•  Administer the provisions of various State laws, including the California Elections Code, Political 

Reform Act of 1974, Brown Act, Public Records Act and other applicable laws. 

•  Prepare and administer the Council and City Clerk’s Office budgets. 
•  Administer Oaths of Office to elected and appointed officials, department heads and City 

meetings. 

orders. 

employees. 

•  Countersign bonds and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the City. 
•  Attend and keep a permanent journal of proceedings at all meetings of the City Council. 
•  Coordinate City Clerk activities and work with other City departments and with outside agencies. 
•  Select, supervise, train and evaluate assigned staff. 
•  Administer the overall workload of the City Clerk’s Office, including review and evaluation of 

work products, methods and procedures; plan and organize special City events. 

•  Supervise use of Council Chamber Building facilities.  
•  Supervise procedures for appointments to Boards, Commissions and Committees.  
•  Perform related assignments as necessary. 

 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
City Administrator 
Knowledge of: 

•  Pertinent federal, state and local laws, codes, ordinances and regulations. Modern municipal 

organization, functions and procedures. 

•  Current social, political and economic trends and operating problems of municipal government. 
•  Principles, practices and techniques of public and business administration, including public 

financing and financial management. 

•  Personnel administration policies, procedures and regulations, including those related to public 

agency labor negotiations. 

administration practices. 

•  Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation. Budget preparation and 

•  Modern office practices and technology, including the use of computers for word and data 

processing. 

•  Public / community relations techniques. 

Ability to: 

• 

Interpret, analyze, apply and enforce pertinent federal, state and local laws, rules and 
regulations. 

•  Provide effective leadership and coordinate the staff, programs and activities of a full- service 

municipal organization. 

•  Perform duties under the pressure of very high expectations for exemplary and non- erring 

leadership, management and professionalism. 

•  Gain cooperation through discussion and persuasion. 
•  Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, determine consequences of proposed action, 

and make and implement recommendations in support of goals. 

•  Analyze, interpret, summarize and present administrative and technical information and data in 

an effective manner. 

•  Select, supervise, train and evaluate staff. 
•  Prepare and administer a budget in conformance with sound financial management techniques. 
•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. Speak effectively in public. 
•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of 

•  React professionally at all times, dealing with sensitive, political or controversial situations with 

 

 

•  Applicable Federal, State and municipal laws and procedures, election laws, and procedures.   
•  Political reform requirements. Business English and spelling. 
•  Modern office practices, procedures and equipment. Principles of supervision, training and 

work. 

tact and diplomacy. 

City Clerk 
Knowledge of: 

performance evaluation. 

 
Ability to: 

regulations and policies. 

•  Provide information, make decisions, and organize material in compliance with laws, 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Meet the public, understand their questions, and provide information. Communicate clearly 

and concisely, both orally and in writing. 

•  Select, supervise, train, and evaluate assigned staff. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and ability would be: 
 
Training 

•  Graduation from an accredited college or university with a Bachelor’s degree in business or 

public administration, or a closely related field; A Master’s degree in the same fields of study is 
desirable. 

Experience 

•  Five years of increasingly responsible professional experience in a significant management 

capacity in local government, preferably as a city manager, assistant city manager or in a senior 
management staff position. 

Additional Requirements: 

County 

•  Possession of a valid California driver’s license.  Membership in the International City and 

•  Management Association, and adherence to its code of ethics is desired. Ability to be bonded.   
•  Municipal Clerk certification is desirable. 

TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed in a normal office environment. 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Requires the ability to sit at desk for long periods of time and intermittently walk, stand, stoop, kneel, 
crouch and reach while performing office duties; lift and/or move light weights; use hands to finger, 
handle or feel objects, tools, or controls. Must be able to maintain effective audio-visual discrimination 
and perception needed for making observations, communicating with others, reading and writing, and 
operating office equipment.  Must be able to use a telephone to communicate verbally and a keyboard 
to communicate through written means, to review information and enter/retrieve data, to see and 
read characters on a computer screen. 

This class specification lists the major duties and requirements of the job and is not all-inclusive. 
Incumbents may be expected to perform job-related duties other than those contained in this 
document. 
 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

 

 

ELECTRIC UTILITY DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To plan, schedule, supervise, participate in and manage the construction, maintenance, repair and 
operation of designated municipal electrical distribution systems; to plan, schedule, supervise and 
participate in the repair and maintenance of electrical utility equipment, lines and facilities; to provide 
technical assistance and resources to assigned staff; and to function as a positive and cooperative team 
member.  The position provides specialized and professional staff support, information and assistance to 
the City Council and the City Administrator.  The position serves as a member of the City’s senior 
management team. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This job class is a senior level management classification and a working supervisor in the electrical 
services job series.  Employees in this classification determines policy, manages personnel, manages a 
budget and performs a variety of specialized and technical functions and is expected to possess in-depth 
knowledge of electrical utility operations, standards and procedures for a municipal agency.  Incumbents 
in this job class are responsible for the completion and coordination of assigned and on-going electrical 
services projects as well as special project activities.  In addition to performing the full range of duties 
assigned to the Electrical Services Line worker, this job class is also responsible for supervising and 
training subordinate staff in all day to day activities as well as special projects/assignments and 
emergency responses.  This job class requires a high degree of technical knowledge and expertise as well 
as organizational, communications, management, leadership and customer service skills.  This position is 
expected to exercise a high level of initiative, independent and sound judgment and discretion. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive general direction from the City Administrator within a framework 
of established policies, standard operating procedures and overall objectives.  
 
Employees in this classification exercise direct supervision over skilled and semi-skilled technical staff, 
apprentice and clerical positions. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plans, schedules, supervises and participates in a wide range of skilled and technical tasks in the 

construction, installation, maintenance and repair of overhead and underground electrical 
distribution lines, substations, electrical services equipment and related facilities.  

•  Coordinates, supervises and monitors the customer service and meter reading/recording 

functions for the City’s electrical utility services to include the maintenance, repair and 
installation of meters for both residential and commercial services. 

•  Provides and/or coordinates all training activities for assigned staff to include safety, technical 

and operational training and education; coordinates, monitors tests and participates in 
teaching/mentoring a certified apprenticeship program. 
Inspects electrical transmission/distribution lines, facilities, equipment and work in progress to 
ensure that proper maintenance and repair are occurring; reviews schedules, timelines, work 
and equipment usage records to ensure the proper allocation of resources; re-allocates and/or 
recommends re-allocation of resources  as necessary. 

• 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Receives and responds to a variety of customer requests, concerns and complaints regarding 

electrical utility functions and activities; gathers pertinent data,  researches inquiry and initiates 
appropriate response/action and/or refers customer to an alternative resource. 

•  Oversees, coordinates and monitors the work of contractors and outside engineers performing 
new construction or repairs for the City’s electrical services projects; inspects work in progress 
and provides management with updates and status reports. 

•  Establishes and/or maintains a variety of logs, work orders and records and prepares reports on 

operations periodically and upon request; reviews and verifies logs and reports completed by 
subordinate staff to ensure compliance with pertinent regulatory requirements. 

•  Operates a variety of motorized, power and hand-powered machines and equipment to  include 
line truck, backhoe, front loader, aerial tower truck, jackhammer, tamper, compressor, trencher 
and forklift. 

•  Responds to emergency calls on weekends, holidays and evenings as well as being available for 

standby duty as necessary. 

•  Represent the City and the electrical utility at NCPA Superintendent meetings.  Represent the 

electrical utility in interactions with other municipal or investor owned   utility representatives. 
Investigate and resolve customer complaints involving electrical service. 

• 
•  Performs related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted methods, tools and equipment used in the construction,  maintenance 

and repair of electrical transmission/distribution lines, related equipment and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted principles and techniques in the construction and repair  of high-voltage 

overhead and underground electrical lines, equipment and facilities. 

•  Standard and accepted operation and maintenance of a variety of power equipment and 

•  National electrical codes and safety orders. 
•  Standard and accepted safety practices and standards applicable to high voltage and electrical 

vehicles. 

line work. 

•  City’s operations, policies and procedures as related to assigned duties. 
•  Standard and accepted principles of supervision and employee training. 
•  Basic budgeting and control processes and methods. 

•  Understand, interpret and carry out a variety of oral and written instructions in   an independent 

•  Operate a variety of hand powered electrical maintenance and construction equipment in a safe 

manner. 

and effective manner. 

•  Operate a variety of motorized power equipment utilized in the maintenance, construction and 
repair of electrical distribution lines, equipment, substations and related facilities in a safe and 
effective manner. 

•  Perform mathematical calculations including addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. 
•  Supervise, train and motivate assigned clerical and technical staff in an effective and positive 

 
Ability to: 

manner. 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Prioritize and schedule workload effectively for self and others. 
• 

Identify problem, research and gather pertinent information, determine alternatives and 
initiate/recommend the proper course of action. 

•  Establish and maintain a variety of administrative records and logs and prepare clear and 

concise reports. 

•  Communicate orally and in writing in an effective and tactful manner. 
•  Provide courteous and positive customer service. 
•  Perform assigned duties on high poles, in confined spaces and among high voltage/energized 

power lines in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy and continuous physical labor in a safe and effective 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

manner for self and others. 

of required duties. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  The successful completion of the twelfth grade to include the ability to read and write at a level 

required for successful job performance. 

•  The successful completion of an approved apprenticeship program as an electrical line worker. 

 
Experience 

•  Four (4) years of increasingly responsible experience performing electrical line worker 

construction, maintenance and repair work. 

•  Five (5) years of increasingly responsible work in a supervisory capacity including at least three 

(3) years in the Electrical Supervisor position. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles and other motorized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with customers, supervisors and fellow employees 
on a continuous basis.  Employee is regularly required to frequently lift and/or carry and/or move 
objects weighing up to 25 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move up to 100 pounds.  Employee’s 
vision requirements for the performance of required duties include close vision, distance vision, color 
vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and the ability to adjust focus.  In the performance of 
essential and required duties, an employee is required to climb electric poles and perform duties up to 
90 feet above the ground; an employee is required to work around and on live hot wires. 
 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures, working in cramped spaces, in traffic, at heights and underground.  
Continuous contact with other agencies and businesses as well as the general public is also required. 
 
 
 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

FINANCE DIRECTOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To plan, organize, direct, and manage the City’s Finance Department to include utility billing, accounting, 
purchasing, treasury, risk management and data processing in accordance with the City Administrator’s 
and City Council’s directives; to establish and implement, and communicate policies and procedures in 
regards to financial planning and management issues; to provide specialized and professional staff 
support, information and assistance to the City Council and City Administrator; and to participate as a 
responsible, proactive, and positive team member of the City’s senior management team. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This is a senior level management classification assigned to the Finance Department.  The incumbent in 
this single position job class determines policy, manages personnel and administers budget, develops 
and initiates programs and formulates operational objectives.  This job class is also responsible for 
providing the leadership to successfully maximize operational and administrative effectiveness, resource 
efficiency, and positive community relations for the Finance Department and the City.  This job class 
requires comprehensive professional and technical knowledge and expertise in all aspects of fiscal 
planning, budgeting, risk management, and internal controls.  This job class also requires a high level of 
initiative, independent and sound judgment, discretion, as well as strong management and leadership 
skills. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive direction from the City Administrator within a framework of 
stated goals and overall objectives.  Employees in this classification exercise direct supervision over 
assigned clerical, technical, and professional personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to the following: 

•  Plans, organizes, directs, and participates in the City’s fiscal planning and projections, 

development and administration of capital and operating budgets, coordination and preparation 
for City’s auditors, risk management, grants administration, investments, and cash 
management. 

•  Plans, organizes, manages and directs the City’s payroll process, employee benefits 

coordination, accounts payable and receivable, general ledger activities and systems. 

•  Plans, directs, and participates in the coordination and preparation for the City’s auditors; 

• 

• 

prepares schedules of all revenue sources, expenses, interest, fixed asset activity, and other 
financial balances; analyzes balance sheet accounts; tracks and adjusts differences. 
Initiates, directs and coordinates the design, development and use of a variety of computerized 
databases as well as computer hardware and software programs to be used by the City. 
Initiates, directs, and coordinates the implementation of the City’s internal control structure; 
develops new and evaluates existing policies and procedures to ensure a strong financial 
internal control structure. 

•  Formulates policies and procedures concerning activities of the department; establishes and 

maintains goals, objectives and action plans for accomplishment of stated and mandated goals; 
identifies and develops new and/or modified programs that would promote and enhance the 
mission, goals, and objectives of the department and the City’; initiates, directs, and provides 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

• 

leadership in the necessary research and analysis to justify the appropriateness of implementing 
any proposed programs, policies and/or procedures. 
Identifies short-term and long-term financial goals, objectives, priorities, and activities to be 
accomplished consistent with the City’s strategies; plans, directs, coordinates and participates in 
the implementation of accepted strategies and plans. 

•  Administers and oversees the City’s grants; participates in seeking grant and planning the City’s 

Economic Development. 

•  Plans, directs, coordinates, and participates in the development and administration of City 
annual budget; coordinates and directs the forecasting of funds needed, researching and 
analyzing funding resources and availability; prepares and presents financial projections for the 
City Administrator, City Council and other City directors; prepares financial projection and plans 
based on detailed and complex research and analysis. 

•  Reviews, analyzes, and evaluates changes in federal and state laws and regulations that will 
have an impact on the delivery of services and establishes action plans to ensure compliance 
with pertinent guidelines and regulations; advises the City Council and the City Administrator of 
specific plans, costs and recommendations for program, policy and procedural modifications. 
•  Provides professional and leadership resources to the City Administrator, the City Council, and 
other directors and staff in a responsible and supportive manner that will maximize the City’s 
and department’s effectiveness, responsiveness, and in accordance with its mission and 
objectives. 

•  Represents the City and Finance Department and acts as liaison with a variety of federal, state, 

and local agencies/organizations to ensure communications with and input into all decision-
making and data collection processes that impact the goals and objectives of the City and the 
department. 

•  Directs the investigation and resolution of complaints/concerns related to the Finance 

Department’s services and activities; identifies and initiates solutions to issues involving policy, 
service delivery, community relations, and/or personnel actions. 
Initiates, organizes, provides leadership to, and participates in a variety of committees and task 
forces with the City and community in response to identified needs, special assignments, 
enhanced communications, and the over-all and on-going commitment to team management 
and the facilitation of employee empowerment. 

• 

•  Performs related duties as required. 

 

EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted regulations, principles, practices, and policies of financial operations, 

administration, planning, and budgeting. 

•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of accounting, auditing, recordkeeping, and 

internal control structures. 

•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of financial analysis and research. 
•  Pertinent federal, state, and local laws, guidelines, regulations and ordinances governing 

municipal finances/investments and public accounting. 

•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of leadership, motivation, team building and 

conflict resolution. 

•  Standard and accepted personnel principles and procedures associated with hiring, evaluating, 

training, disciplining, and terminating employees. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

Ability to: 

Learn and understand the City’s organization, policies, operations and procedures. 

• 
•  Understand, interpret, and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

independent manner. 

•  Plan, organize, direct, and evaluate the activities and operations of management, professional, 

technical, and clerical staff involved in complex and comprehensive activities. 

•  Successfully develop, administer, and monitor multiple operational, programmatic and 

administrative budgets. 

•  Define and analyze problems and issues, identify alternative solutions, project consequences of 

proposed actions and implement recommendations in support of goals. 

•  Operate software programs to include word processing, spreadsheets, and databases at a level 

sufficient for successful job performance. 

•  Successfully communicate and interact with individuals and groups at all organizational and 

social levels; clearly and concisely in both oral and written forms; instruct, persuade, negotiate, 
and motivate individuals with diverse backgrounds and business/personal interests. 

•  Coordinate, prioritize, and integrate multiple functions and activities in a cohesive and effective 

service delivery system; secure cooperation and teamwork among assigned staff. 

•  Supervise, train, and motivate assigned staff in a positive and effective manner; delegate and 

evaluate the work of assigned staff in a manner that maximizes the effectiveness of individuals. 
•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

of required duties. 
 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain these knowledge and abilities would be: 
 
Training 

•  Possession of a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university in accounting, 

finance, public administration or a closely related field. 

•  Possession of a CPA or MBA degree from an accredited college or university is desirable. 

 

Experience 

•  At least five (5) years of progressively responsible professional accounting/financial 

management experience with a municipality or public accounting organization and including at 
least two (2) years in a supervisory or management role. 
 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use hand 
and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tools, equipment, vehicles, and other specialized equipment; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with citizens, general public, staff, and other 
management on a continuous basis.  Sitting for extended periods of time daily; standing and walking 
short distances.  Minimal twisting, bending, stooping, and lifting in the performance of assigned duties.  
Corrected vision to normal ranges. 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Assigned work is normally performed in an office environment.  Continuous contact with other City 
management and staff, citizens, other agencies, and businesses as well as the general public. 
 
 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

 

 

POLICE CHIEF 
Job Description 

DEFINITION 
Subject to the provisions of the City Code and applicable policies and procedures, to plan, direct, 
coordinate, evaluate and review the programs, projects and activities of the Police Department in the 
enforcement of law and the preservation of life and property; to carry out the statutory duties of 
Chief of Police; to provide leadership and direction for the department; to oversee Animal Control for 
the City; and to perform related duties and responsibilities as required. 

SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Receives administrative direction from the City Administrator and policy direction from the Mayor 
and City Council.  Exercises direction over management, supervisory, professional, technical and 
clerical personnel. 

EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plans, directs, coordinates, evaluates and reviews the programs, projects and activities of the 

Police Department, including patrol, investigations, animal control, public services and 
programs, and administration. 

•  Develops, recommends, implements and administers department policies, procedures and 

standards of safety. 

•  Evaluates community law enforcement needs and formulates short- and long-range plans to 

address them; develops, recommends and implements cost-effective, innovative law 
enforcement programs. 

•  Continuously monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery 

methods and procedures; identifies opportunities for improvement; directs the 
implementation of changes. 

•  Within City policy, recommends appropriate service and staffing levels; allocates resources 

accordingly. 

•  Prepares, recommends and administers the department budget; supervises departmental 

purchasing; oversees department grant administration. 

•  Participates in the preparation of the department’s capital improvement program. 
•  Selects, trains, supervises, motivates and evaluates department personnel; provides for 

adequate training and professional development; works with employees to correct 
deficiencies; handles employee concerns and grievances; maintains discipline and oversees the 
conduct of employees; implements discipline and termination procedures. 

•  Plans, directs and coordinates, through subordinate officers, the department’s work plan; 

meets with management staff to identify and resolve problems; assigns projects and 
programmatic areas of responsibility. 

•  Confers with citizens and City officials on law enforcement problems. 
•  Ensures the development and implementation of effective crime prevention and educational 

programs. 

•  Represents the Police Department to other City departments, elected officials, outside 

agencies, and City, community and regional committees; explains, justifies and supports Police 
Department programs, policies and activities; negotiates and resolves sensitive, significant and 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

controversial issues. 

organizations. 

•  Coordinates department activities with those of other departments and outside agencies and 

•  Provides staff assistance to the City Administrator and City Council; prepares and presents staff 

reports and other necessary correspondence; assists in the preparation and recommends 
adoption of City ordinances, policies and procedures related to law enforcement. 

•  Actively participates in various professional organizations; attends civic and community events 

to explain and promote the activities and functions of the department and to establish 
favorable public relations. 

•  Keeps abreast of new legislation, case law, trends and innovations in the field of law 

enforcement. 

news media and City staff. 

•  Responds to difficult or sensitive complaints and requests for information from the public, 

•  Acts as City Administrator as required in his/her absence. 
•  Advises and assists subordinates in highly complex criminal and other investigations. Performs 

law enforcement duties as required. 

•  Performs general administrative work as required, including conducting and attending 

meetings, reviewing correspondence, preparing reports, etc. 

EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 

Knowledge of: 

•  Pertinent federal, state and local laws, regulations, codes and ordinances. 
•  Operational characteristics, services and activities of a comprehensive municipal law 

enforcement program. 

•  Structure, functions and inter-relationships of state and local law enforcement agencies. 
•  Up-to-date law enforcement and law enforcement training procedures in the areas of 

investigation and identification, patrol, traffic control, juvenile delinquency control, care and 
custody of persons and property, etc. 

•  Courtroom procedures and legal practices. 
•  Firearms, automotive, radio and other law enforcement equipment. 
•  Organizational and management practices as applied to the analysis and evaluation of 

programs, policies and operational needs. 

•  Modern and complex principles and practices of program development and administration. 
•  Recent developments, current literature and sources of information related to police science 

and public safety. 

•  Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation. 
•  Modern office practices and technology, including the use of computers for word and data 

•  Budget development and administration. 
•  Methods of letter writing and report 

processing. 

preparation. 

•  English usage, spelling, grammar and 

punctuation. Safe work practices. 

•  Public / community relations techniques. 

 

 

 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

Ability to: 

Interpret, analyze, apply and enforce federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. 

• 
•  Provide administrative and professional leadership and direction for the Police Department. 
•  Plan, organize and direct the work of management, supervisory, professional, technical and 

clerical staff; delegate authority and responsibility. 

•  Train, supervise and evaluate the performance of staff. 
•  Perform duties under the pressure of very high expectations for exemplary and non-erring 

leadership, management, professionalism and implementation of law enforcement procedures. 

•  Develop, implement and interpret goals for providing effective and efficient municipal law 

enforcement services. 

•  Analyze problems, identify alternative solutions, determine consequences of proposed actions 

and implement recommendations in support of goals. 

•  Research, analyze and evaluate new service delivery methods and procedures. 
•  Perform responsible police work in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, policies, 

procedures and guidelines. 

•  Direct thorough criminal investigations. 
•  Appraise situations and people accurately and quickly, and adopt an effective course of action. 
•  Work under stressful or dangerous conditions, often involving considerable personal risk or risk 

•  React quickly and calmly in emergency situations. 
•  Deal courteously, yet firmly and effectively with the public in police situations. Gain cooperation 

through discussion and persuasion. 

•  Properly use firearms and other work-related equipment. 
•  Plan and administer large and complex budgets; allocate limited resources in a cost- effective 

•  Perform mathematical computations with accuracy. 
•  Prepare clean and concise administrative and financial reports. Make effective public 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing. 
•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of 

•  Meet the physical requirements necessary for successful job performance. 

to others. 

manner. 

presentations. 

work. 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities would be qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and ability would be: 
 
Training 

•  Graduation from an accredited college or university with a Bachelor’s degree in police science 

or administration, or a closely related field. A Master’s degree in the same fields of study is 
desirable 

 
Experience 

Additional Requirements: 

•  Ten years of increasingly responsible professional experience in law enforcement, 

including at least five years in an administrative or managerial capacity. 

 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

 

Possession of a valid California driver’s license.  Possession of a Management Certificate as issued by 
the state of California Commission on Peace Officer’s Standards and Training. 

TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed in an office and field environment. Incumbent drives on surface streets and may 
be exposed to traffic and equipment hazards, adverse weather conditions, temperature and noise 
extremes, violence, heights, explosives, fumes, dusts, odors, toxic or caustic chemicals, pathogenic 
substances, vibration. 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Requires the mobility to work in an office and field environment. Requires the ability to sit at desk for 
long periods of time and intermittently walk, stand, run, climb, balance, bend, squat, twist and reach 
while performing office duties and/or police work; lift and/or move more than 100 pounds of weight; 
perform simple grasping and fine manipulation. Must be able to maintain effective audio-visual 
discrimination and perception needed for making observations, communicating with others, reading 
and writing, and operating office equipment. Must be able to use a telephone to communicate 
verbally and a keyboard to communicate through written means, to review information and 
enter/retrieve data, to see and read characters on a computer screen. Requires the strength and 
stamina to perform law enforcement duties, including handling firearms, making arrests, and driving a 
motor vehicle. 

This class specification lists the major duties and requirements of the job and is not all-inclusive. 
Incumbents may be expected to perform job-related duties other than those contained in this 
document. 
 
 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

POLICE LIEUTENANT  
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To plan, direct, organize and supervise the Police Department’s operations to include law enforcement 
and crime prevention activities; to coordinate, supervise and participate in the more complex 
investigative activities; to act as a positive resource in the community to promote proactive crime 
prevention, enhance community relations and provide outreach and support to all citizens; to perform a 
variety of functions in support of the Police Department, the City and its citizens; may act in the Police 
Chief’s absence as designated; and to function as a positive and cooperative team member. 
 
DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS 
This classification functions at a mid-management level of job performance with responsibility for in 
supervising and directing employees in the Police Department.  Employees in this classification plan, 
direct and manage the work of staff through the direct supervision of first line supervisors.  Employees 
in this classification are also responsible for significant administrative functions in support of the Police 
Department.  This job class acts as a resource to all Department personnel and in this capacity, requires 
strong and in-depth professional and technical knowledge and skills in all facets of law enforcement and 
crime prevention activities within the community policing philosophy of service delivery.   
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Employees in this classification receive consistent direction from the Police Chief within a framework of 
established policies and standard operating procedures.  Employees in this classification exercise direct 
supervision over assigned sworn and non-sworn personnel. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES  
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plans, directs, organizes and supervises all law enforcement and crime prevention operations for 
the City’s Police Department consistent with the community policing philosophy; supervises and 
monitors Police Sergeants and Corporals in the day to day management of patrol operations; 
ensures that all pertinent laws, regulations and operating policies/procedures are followed. 

•  Plans, monitors and participates in providing proactive crime prevention and community 
outreach; acts as a resource to City’s citizens and the general public; provides training and 
education to community regarding police activities and crime prevention techniques; making 
presentations and serving on committees as assigned. 

•  Oversees and reviews the preparation of criminal complaints, reviews shift reports and police 

logs and analyzes crime reports to ensure accuracy and completeness of documentation; 
follows-up on insufficient or inaccurate data; provides feedback and input to staff regarding 
modifications needed. 

•  Directs, and monitors arrests and issuance of citations for violations of pertinent laws and 

ordinances within standard and accepted laws, policies and operational regulations; monitors 
the booking, transport and the appropriate care and safety of detained persons to ensure 
compliance with pertinent laws, regulations and guidelines. 

•  Acts as a primary resource to Police Sergeants, Police Corporals, Police Officers and non-sworn 

staff regarding a variety of law enforcement, crime prevention and community policing 
operations, training and activities within the Police Department. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  May conduct internal affairs and background investigations as assigned and on an as-needed 

basis. 

•  Oversees and monitors staff appearances in court to present evidence and testimony as to 

circumstances, occurrences and the investigative process regarding designated cases; provides 
information, reports and documentation to the court and its representatives in support of case 
development. 

•  Prepares a variety of reports, memoranda, correspondence and documentation; establishes and 

maintains files and records in a complete and confidential manner. 

•  May act as Police Department Head in the absence of the Police Chief as assigned and as 

necessary. 

•  Performs other related duties as required. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Standard and accepted law enforcement methodology and techniques to include patrol, crime 

prevention and traffic control. 

•  Standard and accepted criminal investigative techniques and methodology to include crime 

scene investigation, interrogation, fingerprinting and arrests. 

•  Pertinent federal, state and local laws, regulations and guidelines governing the apprehension, 
arrest and custody of persons accused or suspected of committing felonies and misdemeanors. 

•  Rules of evidence pertaining to search and seizure and the preservation and presentation of 

•  Proper and safe use and care of firearms and other special equipment utilized by sworn police 

evidence. 

law enforcement personnel. 

•  Standard and accepted law enforcement recordkeeping, documentation and reporting 

requirements, methods and procedures. 

•  Community policing philosophy and methodology. 
•  Automated safety dispatch and criminal records systems. 
•  Standard and accepted principles and practices applicable to the supervision and management 

•  Standard and accepted principles and practices of employee supervision, evaluation and 

of a modern police department. 

training. 

•  City and departmental organizational structure, ordinances, policies and procedures. 
• 

Location and configuration of the City’s streets, landmarks, public areas, community facilities 
and schools. 

•  Understand, interpret and carry out a variety of both oral and written instructions in an 

independent manner. 

persuasive and effective manner. 

•  Present information to and communicate with a variety of individuals and groups in a positive, 

•  Plan, direct, supervise and evaluate the work of others in an effective, productive and positive 

manner. 
Identify and analyze problem/situation in a timely and accurate manner; gather and research 
pertinent data/information; evaluate facts, evidence and alternatives; and initiate/recommend 
appropriate course of action. 

 
Ability to: 

• 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Operate a variety of routine and special law enforcement equipment such as a car radio, 

handguns and other firearms, handcuffs, batons, tear gas, ammunition, chemical reagents, 
stroll-a-meter, and a variety of protective devices in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Utilize a computer and designated software at a level sufficient for successful job performance. 
•  Prioritize and schedule workload in a timely and effective manner for self and others. 
•  Prepare a variety of documentation, forms and reports. 
•  Provide courteous and positive community relations and neighborhood outreach. 
•  Perform assigned duties to include heavy lifting and sporadic but strenuous physical endeavors 

in a safe and effective manner. 

•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the performance 

of required duties. 

•  Use and carry a firearm. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Possession of a valid and appropriate California state driver’s license. 
•  Possession of a safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy. 
•  Completion of a P.O.S.T. certified Basic Police Academy Program. 
•  Possession of P.O.S.T. Intermediate, Advanced and Supervisory Certifications. 
•  Ability to successfully obtain the P.O.S.T. Management Certificate upon the completion of the 

first two (2) years of continuous employment in this job class. 

 
EDUCATION, TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
To perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential duty satisfactorily. 
Requirements listed below are representative of the education, knowledge, skill, and/or ability required. 
 
Education 

•  Possession of an Associate of Arts (AA) or Associate of Science (AS) degree with a major in police 

science, criminal justice, or a related field is required. 

•  Possession of a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree is highly desirable. 

Training 

Experience 

•  Successfully completed the P.O.S.T. Supervisory Course (80 hours). 

•  At least six (6) years of progressively responsible experience with a law enforcement agency as a 

Police Officer or Police Detective to include at least two (2) years performing at the level of 
Police Sergeant. 

•  Must have successfully completed employment probation as a law enforcement officer at the 

Gridley-Biggs Police Department. 

 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
While performing the essential functions of this job class, the employee is regularly required to use 
hands and fingers to operate a variety of objects, tool, equipment, vehicles and other specialized 
equipment; flexibility and endurance to stand, climb, stoop, kneel, crawl, bend, walk, reach and crouch; 
talk and hear clearly and concisely to communicate with citizens, general public, victims, suspects, 
witnesses, supervisors and fellow employees on a continued basis.  Employee is regularly required to lift 
and/or carry and/or move objects weighing up to 25 to 35 pounds and occasionally lift and/or move 
individuals weighing more than 165 pounds.  Vision requirements for the performance of required 
duties include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and the 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

ability to adjust focus.  Good vision is defined as 20/100 in each eye correctable to 20/30.  Night vision is 
also required.  Employee is required to be able to detect a variety of odors such as drugs, alcohol, fumes 
and hazardous materials spills. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Employee performs many assigned duties outdoors in a variety of climatic conditions including exposure 
to hot and cold temperatures.  The employee may be required to drive a patrol car at times working in 
cramped spaces and in traffic.  Employee works in a high stress environment and is exposed to 
hazardous, volatile and dangerous situations in the performance of required duties.  On-going exposure 
to these types of environments and situations may create a high demand on an employee’s physical, 
mental and emotional well-being.  Continuous contact with other staff, citizens, other agencies and 
businesses as well as the general public. 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
To plan, coordinate, direct and review the operations and activities of the Department of Public Works, 
including public facility engineering; construction and maintenance of streets, storm drains, sewer 
systems, water systems, and public utilities; City building, equipment and fleet maintenance; to ensure 
departmental compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and standards; and to perform related 
duties and responsibilities as required. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
Receives administrative direction from the City Administrator and policy direction from the Mayor and 
City Council.  Exercises direct supervision over public works departmental staff. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include, but are not limited to, the following: 

•  Plans, directs, reviews and evaluates the activities, programs and projects of the Department 

of Public Works. 

•  Develops and implements policies, procedures, goals, objectives, priorities and work standards 

• 

for the department. 
Interprets and ensures departments compliance with all federal, state and local laws and 
regulations, City policies and procedures, and standards of quality and safety. 

•  Establishes, within City policy, appropriate service and staffing levels; allocates resources 

accordingly. 

•  Selects, assigns, supervises, motivates and evaluates the performance of departmental 

personnel; provides for staff training and development opportunities; implements disciplinary 
and termination processes. 

•  Reviews and evaluates reports of subordinate staff for accuracy, completeness and compliance 

with departmental policies and procedures; determines and monitors follow- up actions 
required. 

•  Directs and reviews the work of contract consultants providing assistance to the departments; 

reviews or prepares related requests for proposals and contracts. 

•  Develops and manages the departmental budgets; monitors and approves all purchase 

• 

payment orders; prepares and administers grants for special programs and projects. 
Identifies City needs and priorities for specific public works projects, planning projects and 
building activities; develops and updates short- and long-range goals and capital improvement 
plans. 

•  Conducts or directs analytical studies; develops and reviews reports of findings, alternatives 
and recommendations for the maintenance and improvement of City public works services, 
planning and building department services; prepares and directs the preparation of a variety of 
periodic and special reports regarding departmental activities. 

•  Prepares, reviews and/or approves public improvement plans, specifications, standards and 

estimates; encroachment, transportation, grading, drainage and flood plain permits; land 
development conditions of approval and associated agreements; land development maps, 
deeds and other documents, including acceptance of public right-of-way dedications to the 
City by deeds. 
Inspects and evaluates public and private improvement projects and public safety concerns. 

• 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

•  Ensures the availability of adequate equipment, vehicles, materials and supplies for Public 

Works. 

•  Confers with and provides professional and technical assistance to City Council, City 

Administrator and other staff on matters related to Public Works functions. 

•  Coordinates departmental activities with those of other departments and divisions, agencies 

and private groups as appropriate. 

•  Represents the department at City Council, Commission, Board, other City and community 

meetings; may serve on various committees, boards and commissions as appropriate. 

•  Receives and responds to public inquiries, requests for assistance and complaints regarding 

departmental projects and activities. 

•  Monitors legislation and trends in areas of responsibility; evaluates their impact on City 

operations and recommends and implements policy and procedural improvements. 

•  Performs general administrative work as assigned, including but not limited to conducting and 
attending meetings, assisting customers, researching files, scheduling appointments, reviewing 
correspondence, etc. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

•  Departmental policies, procedures and standards related to public works maintenance and 

construction projects and activities. 

•  Pertinent federal, state and local laws, regulations, codes and ordinances. Administrative 

principles and methods, including goal setting and planning. 

•  Organizational and management practices as applied to the analysis and evaluation of 

programs, policies and operational needs. 

•  Principles and practices of civil engineering, land development, flood plain management, 
emergency management, construction and maintenance of public facilities and technical 
inspection services. 

•  Modern principles, practices, techniques, equipment, materials and tools used in planning, 

building and public works construction / maintenance projects and daily operations. 

•  Safe and proper operation of heavy construction equipment. 
•  Research methods and sources of information related to public works operations. 
•  Principles of supervision, training and performance evaluation. Budget preparation and 

administration practices. 

and public relations. 

•  Principles and practices of modern office management, communications and effective employee 

•  Modern office practices and technology, including the use of computers for word and data 

•  Methods of letter writing and report preparation. English usage, spelling, grammar and 

processing and spreadsheet applications. 

punctuation. Safe work practices. 

• 

Interpret, analyze and apply pertinent federal, state and local laws, codes, ordinances, rules and 
regulations pertaining to department administration and operations. 

•  Develop, implement and interpret goals, objectives, policies, procedures and work standards. 
•  Analyze complex problems, identify alternative solutions, determine consequences of proposed 

actions and implement recommendations in support of goals. 

 
Ability to: 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

•  Determine work priorities and effectively coordinate and schedule resources and staff to 

perform activities and projects within time limits. 

•  Read and understand complex plans, specifications and blueprints. 
•  Apply technical knowledge and follow proper inspection techniques to examine workmanship 

and materials, and detect deviations from plans, specifications, regulations and standard 
construction practices. 

•  Exercise sound, independent judgment within general policy guidelines. Select, supervise, train 

and evaluate staff. 

•  Prepare and administer a comprehensive budget. 
•  Perform required mathematical computations with accuracy. Communicate clearly and 

concisely, both orally and in writing. 

•  Prepare, verify, analyze and reconcile complex records, reports and recommendations. 
•  Establish and maintain effective working relationships with those contacted in the course of 

work. 

•  Gain cooperation through discussion and persuasion, and facilitate the resolution of difficult 

political and controversial issues related to Public Works plans and projects. 

•  Represent the City effectively in meetings with others. 
• 

Interpret complex departmental projects and programs to the public. 

 
TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination of training and experience which would likely provide the required knowledge and 
abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain this knowledge and ability would be: 
 
Training 

•  A Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with major coursework in civil 

engineering is desired but not required. 

 
Experience 

•  Five years of increasingly responsible professional experience in the field of public works, 

including at least two years in a responsible supervisory position involving the design, 
construction and maintenance of public works facilities, preferably in a local government 
jurisdiction. 

 
Additional Requirements: 

•  Possession of a valid California driver’s license.     
•  Water and Wastewater certifications desired. 

 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed in an office and field environment. Incumbent drives on surface streets and may be 
exposed to traffic and construction hazards, electrical currents, air contaminants, adverse weather 
conditions, temperature and noise extremes, wetness, humidity, heights, fumes, dusts, odors, toxic or 
caustic chemicals, vibration. Worker frequently works past normal office hours for meetings and other 
events. 
 
TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Requires the mobility to work in an office environment; frequent outdoor work is required in the 
inspection of various land developments, construction sites and public works facilities including water, 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

 

 

sewer, and storm drain systems. Requires the ability to sit at desk for long periods of time and 
intermittently walk, stand, climb, balance, stoop, kneel, crouch, crawl and reach while performing 
office duties and/or field work; lift and/or move up to 25 pounds occasionally; use hands to finger, 
handle, feel or operate objects, tools and controls. Must be able to maintain effective audio-visual 
discrimination and perception needed for making observations, communicating with others, reading 
and writing, and operating office equipment.  Must be able to use a telephone to communicate 
verbally and a keyboard to communicate through written means, to review information and 
enter/retrieve data, to see and read characters on a computer screen.   
 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

RECREATION AIDE 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general supervision, the Recreation Aide will organize and supervise a variety of recreational 
activities.  The position involves providing skilled leadership and direct participation at various locations.  
Responsible for managing programs and monitoring a facility when in use. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
An employee in this classification receives general supervision from the City Recreation Coordinator.  
The employee must exercise overall supervision of participants. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES 
Duties may include but are not limited to the following: 

Lead and organize recreation activities.   

• 
•  On site coordinator of senior enrichment services, including nutritional programs. 
•  Coordinate the planning and implementation of a variety of special events and recreational 

activities for seniors and for youth. 

•  Manage meal preparation for senior activities. 
•  Motivate individuals to become more involved in youth activities and senior enrichment 

activities. 

•  Perform outreach activities to encourage senior residents to begin, increase, or continue 

participation in center activities. 
Investigate and resolve the concerns, problems, and or complaints of participants participating 
in various programs. 

• 

•  Maintain daily attendance and activity records. 
•  Observe necessary precautions to secure the safety of participants. 
• 

Issues and collects fees, supplies, and equipment. 

 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
 
Knowledge of: 

 

Ability to: 

•  Recreational Programs 
•  First aid methods and safety precautions related to recreational settings.   
•  Standard and accepted English usage, spelling and grammar. 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, oral and written form 
•  Supervise, lead, and establish a positive and enjoyable atmosphere for all participants at 

recreation activities. 

•  Ability to adapt to change with ease 
•  Fill in where needed on the job 

 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS 

•  Some experience in marketing, public relations, and with youth and seniors. 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

•  Must obtain or be willing to obtain a valid CPR and basic first aid card.   
•  Must be able to work a flexible schedule to accommodate City needs including weekends, 

evenings, holidays and overtime. 

•  The ability to communicate in Spanish is preferred but not required. 
• 

Fingerprinting is also necessary. 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Work is performed in recreational facilities, office environments, and on-site in parks or 
playground/open space.  Incumbent sits, stands, walks, kneels, crouches, twists, climbs stairs and 
inclines, reaches, bends and grasps, pushes, pulls, drags and lifts supplies and equipment weighing 30 
pounds or less. An incumbent uses a computer, keyboard and related equipment, and may walk and 
stand on slippery and uneven surfaces. 
 
With or without accommodations, an incumbent must be able to meet the physical requirements of the 
class and have mobility, balance, coordination, vision, hearing and dexterity levels appropriate to the 
duties to be performed.  Verbal communication skills are required. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed both indoors and out of doors at various locations.  This position requires interaction 
with senior residents and school-aged children, instructors, and recreational staff. 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

RECREATION COORDINATOR 
Job Description 
 
DEFINITION 
Under general supervision, the Recreation Coordinator will organize and coordinate a variety of 
recreational program activities and special events.  The position involves providing skilled leadership; 
direct participation at various locations; making arrangements regarding the organization; scheduling 
and staffing of various recreation program activities; recruiting and evaluating instructors; preparation 
of reports, news releases, advertisements, flyers and brochures to promote activities, special events, 
programs, classes; assisting in budget preparation and administration; responding to requests for 
information; and performing related work as assigned.  Requires a flexible schedule to accommodate 
City needs including weekends, evenings and holidays. 
 
SUPERVISION RECEIVED AND EXERCISED 
An employee in this classification receives general supervision from the City Administrator or other 
designated supervisor.  The employee may exercise oversight of contracted instructors that provide fee-
based programs and contracted recreation and program attendants. 
 
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES  
Duties may include but are not limited to the following: 
Plans, organizes, participates in and coordinates a variety of programs, events and activities at one or 
more assigned locations; creates, drafts and implements programs; evaluates programs and activities as 
assigned and makes recommendations for changes; schedules and monitors the use of facilities and 
ensures center security system(s); monitors the maintenance of facilities assigned including grounds and 
buildings; coordinates registration for various programs and the work of volunteers; leads assigned staff; 
explains Parks and Recreation programs, policies and procedures to the public and to staff as applicable; 
gathers data and prepares correspondence and reports as needed; attends a variety of meetings and 
makes oral presentations; solicits donations for center use/distribution; orders supplies and equipment 
and monitors expenditures for assigned activities; assists with budget development and monitoring 
related to area assigned; interacts with service groups and businesses as needed; operates computer 
and uses applicable software; maintains computerized and manual records; lifts and carries boxes of 
supplies weighing 30 pounds or less; drives a vehicle on City business. 
EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS 
Knowledge of: 

•  Philosophy, principles and practices of public recreation programs, major sports, games and 

other recreational activities and programs suitable for all age groups 

•  First aid methods and safety precautions related to recreational settings, athletic fields and basic 

supervisory practices 

•  Basic office and purchasing procedures and practices 
•  Basic project and facility management  
•  Methods of making effective oral presentations  
•  English usage and grammar, basic math 
•  Computer applications related to recreational activities 

 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

Ability to: 

•  Communicate clearly and concisely, oral and written form 
•  Supervise, coordinate, and train individuals or groups in recreational activities 
•  Establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with those contacted in the course of 

work 

•  Meet the public with courtesy and tact 
•  Maintain accurate financial and other records 

TRAINING AND EXPERIENCE 
Any combination equivalent to the experience and education that could likely provide the required 
knowledge and abilities is qualifying.  A typical way to obtain the knowledge and abilities would be:   
 
Training 

•  Successful completion of the twelfth grade with an ability to read, write and communicate at a 

level required for successful job performance.  

•  Course work at a college level or past experience in Recreation Management, business, or 

  
Experience 

similar field is preferred. 

 
LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES 

•  Valid California Driver License 
•  Safe driving record per the City’s driving standard policy 

TYPICAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS 
Work is performed in an office environment and on-site in parks, recreational facilities, or 
playground/open space.  Incumbent sits, stands, walks, kneels, crouches, twists, climbs stairs and 
inclines, reaches, bends and grasps, pushes, pulls, drags and lifts supplies and equipment weighing 30 
pounds or less. An incumbent uses a computer, keyboard and related equipment, drives a vehicle on 
City business and may walk and stand on slippery and uneven surfaces. 
 
With or without accommodations, an incumbent must be able to meet the physical requirements of the 
class and have mobility, balance, coordination, vision, hearing and dexterity levels appropriate to the 
duties to be performed.  Verbal communication skills are required. 
 
TYPICAL WORKING CONDITIONS 
Work is performed both in an office environment and out of doors.  Travel by automobile may be 
required.  This position involves interaction with staff, Council, businesses, civic organizations, and the 
general public. 
 
 

MMCU 

 

Adopted 10/7/2019 

City Council Agenda Item #5 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Council 

 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

Emergency 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

Acceptance of US Department of Homeland Security SAFER Grant Award 

Ken Lowe, Division Chief 
Paul Eckert, City Administrator/Finance Director 

From: 
 
 
Subject: 
 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the City Council accept the Fiscal Year 2018 Staffing for Adequate 
Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant in the amount of $1,159,452 with no financial obligations 
to the City 
 
Background 
The City applied for and was awarded funding through the US Department of Homeland Security Fiscal 
Year 2018 SAFER Grant Program for funding of Firefighters for a three year period.  The purpose of the 
program is to provide funding directly to fire departments and volunteer firefighter interest 
organizations to assist in increasing the number of firefighters to help communities meet industry 
minimum standards and attain 24-hour staffing to provide adequate protection from fire and fire-
related hazards, and to fulfill traditional missions of fire departments.   
 
The award received through the SAFER Grant will be utilized to fund the salary and associated benefits 
for two firefighter positions for three years.  The City was poised to have been required to pay a match 
of 25% of the salary and only receive funding for just one firefighter position.  However, due to the 
efforts of Chief Lowe and his Team, as well as the current FEMA funding for our region, the City will now 
receive funding for 2 full-time Firefighters WITHOUT any local match requirement.  
 
Fiscal Impact 
There are no costs required due to the Federal funding, including FEMA funding, of the two new 
Firefighter positions.  
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals  
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters. 
 
Attachments 

•  US Department of Homeland Security Award Letter 
•  Waiver Request 
•  SAFER Grant Application 

Award Letter 

Spencer Mallinger 
GRIDLEY, CITY OF 
685 KENTUCKY ST. 
GRIDLEY, CA 95948 

EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Dear Spencer Mallinger, 

U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
Washington, D.C. 20472 

,^,> 

~:~;Ú:; FEMA 

F, 

Congratulations on behalf of the Department of Homeland Security. Your application submitted for the 
Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant funding 
opportunity has been approved in the amount of $1,159,452.00 in Federal funding. 

FEMA has waived, in part or in full, one or more requirements for this grant award. See the Summary 
Award Memo for additional information about Economic Hardship Waivers. 

Before you request and receive any of the Federal funds awarded to you, you must establish 
acceptance of the award through the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system. By accepting this 
award, you acknowledge that the terms of the following documents are incorporated into the terms of 
your award: 

•  Summary Award Memo -included in this document 
•  Agreement Articles -included in this document 
•  Obligating Document -included in this document 
•  2018 SAFER Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) -incorporated by reference 

Please make sure you read, understand, and maintain a copy of these documents in your official file for 
this award. 

Sincerely, 

Bridget Bean 
Acting Assistant Administrator 
Grant Programs Directorate 

Summary Award Memo 

Program: Fiscal Year 2018 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
Recipient: GRIDLEY, CITY OF 
DUNS number: 040477788 
Award number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Summary description of award 

The purpose of the SAFER Grant Program is to provide funding directly to fire departments and 
volunteer firefighter interest organizations to assist in increasing the number of firefighters to help 
communities meet industry minimum standards and attain 24-hour staffing to provide adequate 
protection from fire and fire-related hazards, and to fulfill traditional missions of fire departments. After 
careful consideration, FEMA has determined that the recipient's project or projects submitted as part of 
the recipient's application and detailed in the project narrative as well as the request details section of 
the application —including budget information —was consistent with the SAFER Grant Program's 
purpose and was worthy of award. 

Except as otherwise approved as noted in this award, the information you provided in your application 
for FY2018 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) funding is incorporated into 
the terms and conditions of this award. This includes any documents submitted as part of the 
application. 

Approved Economic Hardship Waivers 

Position cost limit waiver 

FEMA has waived the position cost limit requirement for this grant award. Costs are limited to the 
approved budget per position. 

Cost share waiver 

FEMA has waived the cost share requirement for this grant award. You are not required to contribute 
non-Federal funds for this grant award. The recipient is responsible for any costs that exceed the 
Federal funding provided for this grant award. 

Minimum budget waiver 

FEMA has waived the minimum budget requirement for this award. 

Non-supplanting waiver 

FEMA has waived the non-supplanting requirement for this award. SAFER grant funds may be used to 
replace funds that would be available from State or local sources or from the Bureau of Indian Affairs. 

Amount awarded 

The amount of the award is detailed in the attached Obligating Document for Award. 

The following is the approved budget for this award (including Federal share plus your cost share, if 
applicable) and summarizes the financial aspects of the grant: 

Object Class 

Fírst Year 

Second Year 

Third Year 

Total 

Personnel 

$196,056.00 

$196,056.00 

$196,056.00 

$588,168.00 

Fringe benefits 

$190,428.00 

$190,428.00 

$190, 428.00 

$571,284.00 

Travel 

Equipment 

Supplies 

Contractual 

Construction 

Other 

Indirect charges  

Federal 

Non-federal 

Total 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00  

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$386,484.00 

$386,484.00 

$386,484.00 

$1,159,452.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$0.00 

$386,484.00 

$386,484.00 

$386,484.00 

$1,159,452.00 

2 C.F.R. § 200.308 identifies the limits to the changes that can be made and when prior approval is 
required from FEMA, but this provision does not apply to the breakdown by year. If you have questions 
about which changes require FEMA's prior approval, please contact your Grants Management 
Specialist. 

Approved scope of work 

After review of your application, FEMA has approved the below scope of work. Justifications are 
provided for any differences between the scope of work in the original application and the approved 
scope of work under this award. You must submit scope or budget revision requests for FEMA's prior 
approval, via an amendment request, as appropriate per 2 C.F.R. § 200.308 and the FY2018 SAFER 
NOFO. 

Approved request details: 

Hiring of Firefighters 

Firefighter Position 

BENEFITS FUNDED 

The standard benefit package includes the following: Salary: $5098.00 Planned Overtime: 
$2817.00 19 hours per week per bargaining unit contract (19 hours per week = 72 hours 
scheduled - 53 hours straight time) Educational Incentive: $75.00 per bargaining unit contract 
Uniform Allowance: $179.00 per bargaining unit contract Total Benefits: $6268.26 Retirement: 
$3770.49 Employee Leave Buyout: $144.62 Health/Dental/Vision: $1429.99 Medicare: $115.84 
Survivors Benefits: $6.12 Prefunding of Post Employment Benefits: $351.56 Workers 
Compensation: $449.64 Total Per Month: $16,254.92 Total Annual: $195,059.04 Per the SAFER 
NOFO: Salary and associated benefits (actual payroll expenses) for the positions funded under 
the SAFER grant are eligible. Costs for uniform allowances that are not contractually obligated, 
included as part of the standard benefits package for all employees, or reimbursed via payroll are 
ineligible. 

NUMBER OF 
FIREFIGHTERS 
2 

ANNUAL SALARY 
PRICE 
$98,028.00 

ANNUAL BENEFITS 
$85,214.00 

TOTAL PER 
FIREFIGHTER 
$193,242.00 

3 YEAR TOTAL 

$1,159,452.00 

CHANGE FROM APPLICATION 
Benefits funded changed 
Annual benefits from $97,031.00 to $95,214.00 

JUSTIFICATION 
The award reflects a reduction from the amount requested in the application. This reduction 
removes ineligible costs for administrative costs requested in the application. The award reflects 
a change from the application. This change is to provide additional information on eligible costs 
as outlined in the Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO). 

Agreement Articles 

Program: Fiscal Year 2018 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response 
Recipient: GRIDLEY, CITY OF 
DUNS number: 040477788 
Award number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Table of contents 

Article 1 Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations and 

Certifications 

Article 2 DHS Specific Acknowledgements and Assurances 
Article 3 Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS 
Article 4 Activities Conducted Abroad 
Article 5 Age Discrimination Act of 1975 
Article 6 Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 
Article 7 Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) 
Article 8 Civil Rights Act of 1964 —Title VI 
Article 9 Civil Rights Act of 1968 
Article Copyright 
10 
Article Debarment and Suspension 
11 
Article Drug-Free Workplace Regulations 
12 
Article Duplication of Benefits 
13 
Article Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) —Title IX 
14 
Article Energy Policy and Conservation Act 
15 
Article False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies 
16 
Article Federal Debt Status 
17 
Article Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving 
18 
Article Fly America Act of 1974 
19 
Article Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990 
20 
Article Limited English Proficiency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI) 
21 
Article Lobbying Prohibitions 
22 
Article National Environmental Policy Act 
23 
Article Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations 
24 
Article Non-supplanting Requirement 
25 
Article Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements 
26 
Article Patents and Intellectual Property Rights 
27 
Article Procurement of Recovered Materials 
28 
Article Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
29 

Article Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance 
30 
'Article Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation 
; 31 
(Article SAFECOM 
'32 
Article Terrorist Financing 
33 
Article Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
34 
Article Universal Identifier and System of Award Management (SAM) 
35 
Article USA Patriot Act of 2001 
36 
AArticle Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags 
137 
Article Whistleblower Protection Act 
38 
Article Acceptance of Post Award Changes 
39 
AArticle Prior Approval for Modification of Approved Budget 
40 
!Article Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award 
41 
Article Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation 
42 

Article 1  Assurances, Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, Representations 

and Certifications 
DHS financial assistance recipients must complete either the Office of Management 
and Budget(OMB} Standard Form 4246 Assurances -Non-Construction Programs, or 
OMB Standard Form 424D Assurances -Construction Programs as applicable. Certain 
assurances in these documents may not be applicable to your program, and the DHS 
financíal assistance office (DHS FAO) may require applicants to certify additional 
assurances. Applicants are required to fill out the assurances applicable to their 
program as instructed by the awarding agency. Please contact the DHS FAO íf you 
have any questions. DHS financial assistance recipients are required to follow the 
applicable provisions of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and 
Audit Requirements for Federal Awards located at Title 2, Code of Federal 
Regulations(C.F.R) Part 200, and adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part 3002. 

Article 2 DHS Specific Acknowledgements and Assurances 

All recipients, subrecipients, successors, transferees, and assignees must 
acknowledge and agree to comply with applicable provisions governing DHS access to 
records, accounts, documents, information, facilities, and staff. 1. Recipients must 
cooperate with any compliance reviews or compliance investigations conducted by 
DHS. 2. Recipients must give DHS access to, and the right to examine and copy, 
records, accounts, and other documents and sources of information related to the 
federal financial assistance award and permit access to facilities, personnel, and other 
individuals and information as may be necessary, as required by DHS regulations and 
other applicable laws or program guidance. 3. Recipients must submit timely, complete, 
and accurate reports to the appropriate DHS officials and maintain appropriate backup 
documentation to support the reports. 4. Recipients must comply with all other special 
reporting, data collection, and evaluation requirements, as prescribed by law or 
detailed in program guidance. 5. Recipients of federal financial assistance from DHS 
must complete the DHS Civil Rights Evaluation Tool within thirty (30) days of receipt of 
the Notice of Award or, for State Administering Agencies, thirty (30) days from receipt 
of the DHS Civil Rights Evaluation Tool from DHS or its awarding component agency. 
Recipients are required to provide this information once every two (2) years, not every 
time an award is made. After the initial submission for the first award under which this 
term applies, recipients are only required to submit updates every two years, not every 
time a grant is awarded. Recipients should submit the completed tool, including 
supporting materials to CivilRightsEvaluation@hq.dhs.gov. This tool clarifies the civil 
rights obligations and related reporting requirements contained in the DHS Standard 
Terms and Conditions. subrecipients are not required to complete and submit this tool 
to DHS. The evaluation tool can be found at https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhs-civil-
rights-evaluation-tool. . 

Article 3 Acknowledgement of Federal Funding from DHS 

Recipients must acknowledge their use of federal funding when issuing statements, 
press releases, requests for proposals, bid invitations, and other documents describing 
projects or programs funded in whole or in part with federal funds. 

Article 4  Activities Conducted Abroad 

Recipients must ensure that project activities carried on outside the United States are 
coordinated as necessary with appropriate government authorities and that appropriate 
licenses, permits, or approvals are obtained. 

Article 5 

Age Discrimination Act of 1975 
Recipients must comply with the requirements of the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, 
Pub. L. No. 94-135 (1975) (codified as amended at Title 42, U.S. Code, § 6101 et 
seq.), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age in any program or activity 
receiving federal financial assistance. 

Article 6  Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 

Article 7 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Titles I, II, and III of the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, Pub. L. No. 101-336 (1990) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. §§ 
12101-12213), which prohibits recipients from discriminating on the basis of disability 
in the operation of public entities, public and private transportation systems, places of 
public accommodation, and certain testing entities. 

Best Practices for Collection and Use of Personally Identifiable Information 
(PII) 
Recipients who collect PII are required to have a publically-available privacy policy that 
describes standards on the usage and maintenance of PII they collect. DHS defines 
personally identifiable information (PII) as any information that permits the identity of an 
individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any information that is linked or 
linkable to that individual. Recipients may also find the DHS Privacy Impact 
Assessments: Privacy Guidance and Privacy template as useful resources 
respectively. 

Article 8  Civil Rights Act of 1964 -Title VI 

Article 9 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
(codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 2000d et seq.), which provides that no person in 
the United States will, on the grounds of race, color, or national origin, be excluded from 
participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any 
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. DHS implementing 
regulations for the Act are found at 6 C.F.R. Part 21 and 44 C.F.R. Part 7. 

Civil Rights Act of 1968 
Recipients must comply with Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, Pub. L. No. 90-
284, as amended through Pub. L. 113-4, which prohibits recipients from discriminating 
in the sale, rental, financing, and advertising of dwellings, or in the provision of services 
in connection therewith, on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, disability, 
familial status, and sex (See 42 U.S.C. § 3601 et seq.), as implemented by the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24 C.F.R. Part 100. The prohibition 
on disability discrimination includes the requirement that new multifamily housing with 
four or more dwelling units—i.e., the public and common use areas and individual 
apartment units (all units in buildings with elevators and ground-floor units in buildings 
without elevators)—be designed and constructed with certain accessible features. (See 
24 C.F.R. Part 100, Subpart D) 

', 

', 

Article 10 Copyright 

Recipients must affix the applicable copyright notices of 17 U.S.C. §§ 401 or 402 and 
an acknowledgement of U.S. Government sponsorship (including the award number) to 
any work first produced under federal financial assistance awards. 

Article 11 Debarment and Suspension 

Recipients are subject to the non-procurement debarment and suspension regulations 
implementing Executive Orders (E.O.) 12549 and 12689, and 2 C.F.R. Part 180 as 
adopted by DHS at 2 C.F.R. Part 3000. These regulations restrict federal financial 
assistance awards, subawards, and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, 
suspended, or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in federal 
assistance programs or activities. 

Article 12 Drug-Free Workplace Regulations 

Recipients must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in Subpart B (or 
Subpart C, if the recipient is an individual) of 2 C.F.R. Part 3001, which adopts the 
Government-wide implementation (2 C.F.R. Part 182) of sec. 5152-5158 of the Drug- 
Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 8101). 

', 

Article 13 Duplication of Benefits 

Any cost allocable to a particular federal financial assistance award provided for in 2 
C.F.R. Part 200, Subpart E may not be charged to other federal financial assistance 
awards to overcome fund deficiencies, to avoid restrictions imposed by federal 
statutes, regulations, or federal financial assistance award terms and conditions, or for 
other reasons. However, these prohibitions would not preclude recipients from shifting 
costs that are allowable under two or more awards in accordance with existing federal 
statutes, regulations, or the federal financial assistance award terms and conditions. 

Article 14 Education Amendments of 1972 (Equal Opportunity in Education Act) —Title IX 
Recipients must comply with the requirements of Title IX of the Education Amendments 
of 1972 Pub. L. No. 92-318 (1972) (codified as amended at 20 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.), 
which provide that no person in the United States will, on the basis of sex, be excluded 
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under 
any educational program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. DHS 
implementing regulations are codified at 6 C.F.R. Part 17 and 44 C.F.R. Part 19. 

Article 15 Energy Policy and Conservation Act 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of The Energy Policy and Conservation 
Act Pub. L. No. 94- 163 (1975) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 6201 et seq.), 
which contain policies relating to energy efficiency that are defined in the state energy 
conservation plan issued incompliance with this Act. 

Article 16 False Claims Act and Program Fraud Civil Remedies 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of The False Claíms Act, 31 U.S.C. § 
3729-3733, which prohibits the submission of false or fraudulent claims for payment to 
the federal government. (See 31 U.S.C. § 3801-3812 which details the administrative 
remedies for false claims and statements made. 

Article 17 Federal Debt Status 

All recipients are required to be non-delinquent in their repayment of any federal debt. 
Examples of relevant debt include delinquent payroll and other taxes, audit 
disallowances, and benefit overpayments. (See OMB Circular A-129.) 

Article 18 Federal Leadership on Reducing Text Messaging while Driving 

Recipients are encouraged to adopt and enforce policies that ban text messaging while 
driving as described in E.O. 13513, including conducting initiatives described in 
Section 3(a) of the Order when on official government business or when performing any 
work for or on behalf of the federal government. 

Article 19 Fly America Act of 1974 

Recipients must comply with Preference for U.S. Flag Air Carriers (air carriers holding 
certificates under 49 U.S.C. § 41102) for international air transportation of people and 
property to the extent that such service is available, in accordance with the International 
Air Transportation Fair Competitive Practices Act of 1974, 49 U.S.C. § 40118, and the 
interpretative guidelines issued by the Comptroller General of the United States in the 
March 31, 1981, amendment to Comptroller General Decision B-138942. 

Article 20 Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990 

In accordance with Section 6 of the Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of1990, 15 U.S.C. 
§ 2225a, recipients must ensure that all conference, meeting, convention, or training 
space funded in whole or in part with federal funds complies with the fire prevention and 
control guidelines of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, codified as 
amended at 15 U.S.C. § 2225. 

Article 21 Limited English Proficiency (Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI) 

Recipients must comply with the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. § 
2000d et seq.) prohibition against discrimination on the basis of national origin, which 
requires that recipients of federal financial assistance take reasonable steps to provide 
meaningful access to persons with limited English proficiency (LEP) to their programs 
and services. For additional assistance and information regarding language access 
obligations, please refer to the DHS Recipient Guidance 
https://www.dhs.gov/guidancepublished-help-department-supported-organizations-
provide-meaningfulaccess-people-limited  and additional resources on 
http://www.lep.gov. 

Article 22 Lobbying Prohibitions 

Recipients must comply with 31 U.S.C. § 1352, which provides that none of the funds 
provided under a federal financial assistance award may be expended by the recipient 
to pay any person to influence, or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of 
a Member of Congress in connection with any federal action related to a federal award 
or contract, including any extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or 
modification. 

Article 23 National Environmental Policy Act 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act 
of 1969, Pub. L. No. 91-190 (1970) (codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 4321 et seq.) 
(NEPA) and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) Regulations for Implementing 
the Procedural Provisions of NEPA, which requires recipients to use all practicable 
means within their authority, and consistent with other essential considerations of 
national policy, to create and maintain conditions under which people and nature can 
exist in productive harmony and fulfill the social, economic, and other needs of present 
and future generations of Americans. 

Article 24 Nondiscrimination in Matters Pertaining to Faith-Based Organizations 

It is DHS policy to ensure the equal treatment of faith-based organizations in social 
service programs administered or supported by DHS or its component agencies, 
enabling those organizations to participate in providing important social services to 
beneficiaries. Recipients must comply with the equal treatment policies and 
requirements contained in 6 C.F.R. Part 19 and other applicable statues, regulations, 
and guidance governing the participations of faith-based organizations in individual 
DHS programs. 

Article 25 Non-supplanting Requirement 

Recipients receiving federal financial assistance awards made under programs that 
prohibit supplanting by law must ensure that federal funds do not replace (supplant) 
funds that have been budgeted for the same purpose through non-federal sources. 

Article 26 Notice of Funding Opportunity Requirements 

All of the instructions, guidance, limitations, and other conditions set forth in the Notíce 
of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) for this program are incorporated hereby reference in 
the award terms and conditions. All recipients must comply with any such requirements 
set forth in the program NOFO. 

Article 27 Patents and Intellectual Property Rights 

Unless otherwise provided bylaw, recipients are subject to the Bayh-Dole Act, 35 
U.S.C. § 200 et seq. Recipients are subject to the specific requirements governing the 
development, reporting, and disposition of rights to inventions and patents resulting 
from federal financial assistance awards located at 37 C.F.R. Part 401 and the 
standard patent rights clause located at 37 C.F.R. § 401.14. 

', 

Article 28 Procurement of Recovered Materials 

States, political subdivisions of states, and their contractors must comply with Sectíon 
6002 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, Pub. L. No. 89-272 (1965) (codified as amended 
by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. § 6962. The requirements 
of Section 6002 include procuring only items designated in guidelines of the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 C.F.R. Part 247 that contain the highest 
percentage of recovered materials practicable, consistent with maintaining a 
satisfactory level of competition. 

Article 29 Rehabilitation Act of 1973 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act 
oí1973, Pub. L. No. 93-112 (1973) (codified as amended at 29 U.S.C. § 794), which 
provides that no otherwise qualified handicapped individuals in the United States will, 
solely by reason of the handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the 
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving 
federal financial assistance. 

Article 30 Reporting of Matters Related to Recipient Integrity and Performance 

If the total value of the recipient's currently active grants, cooperative agreements, and 
procurement contracts from all federal assistance offices exceeds $10,000,000 for any 
period of time during the period of performance of this federal financial assistance 
award, the recipient must comply with the requirements set forth in the government-
wide Award Term and Condition for Recipient Integrity and Performance Matters 
located at 2 C.F.R. Part 200, Appendix XII, the full text of which is incorporated here by 
reference in the award terms and conditions. 

Article 31 Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation 

Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the government-
wide Award Term on Reporting Subawards and Executive Compensation located at 2 
C.F.R. Part 170, Appendix A, the full text of which is incorporated here by reference in 
the award terms and conditions. 

Article 32 SAFECOM 

Recipients receiving federal financial assistance awards made under programs that 
provide emergency communication equipment and its related activities must comply 
with the SAFECOM Guidance for Emergency Communication Grants, including 
provisions on technical standards that ensure and enhance interoperable 
communications. 

Article 33 Terrorist Financing 

Recipients must comply with E.O. 13224 and U.S. laws that prohibit transactions with, 
and the provisions of resources and support to, individuals and organizations 
associated with terrorism. Recipients are legally responsible to ensure compliance with 
the Order and laws. 

Article 34 Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 

Recipients must comply with the requirements of the government-wide financial 
assistance award term which implements Section 106(g) of the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Act of 2000, (TVPA) codified as amended by 22 U.S.C. § 7104. The award 
term is located at 2 C.F.R. § 175.15, the full text of which ís incorporated here by 
reference. 

Article 35 Universal Identifier and System of Award Management (SAM) 

Recipients are required to comply with the requirements set forth in the government-
wide financial assistance award term regarding the System for Award Management 
and Universal Identifier Requirements located at 2 C.F.R. Part 25, Appendix A, the full 
text of which is incorporated here by reference. 

Article 36 USA Patriot Act of 2001 

Recipients must comply with requirements of Section 817 of the Uniting and 
Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and 
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA PATRIOT Act), which amends 18 U.S.C. §§ 
175-175c. 

Article 37 Use of DHS Seal, Logo and Flags 

Recipients must obtain permission from their DHS FAO prior to using the DHS seal(s), 
logos, crests or reproductions of flags or likenesses of DHS agency officials, including 
use of the United States Coast Guard seal, logo, crests or reproductions of flags or 
likenesses of Coast Guard officials. 

Article 38 Whistleblower Protection Act 

Recipients must comply with the statutory requirements for whistleblower protections (if 
applicable) at 10 U.S.0 § 2409, 41 U.S.C. 4712, and 10 U.S.C. § 2324, 41 U.S.C. §§ 
4304 and 4310. 

Article 39 Acceptance of Post Award Changes 

In the event FEMA determines that changes are necessary to the award document after 
an award has been made, including changes to period of performance or terms and 
conditions, recipients will be notified of the changes in writing. Once notification has 
been made, any subsequent request for funds will indicate recipient acceptance of the 
changes to the award. Please call the FEMA/GMD Call Center at (866) 927-5646 or via 
e-mail to ASK-GMD@dhs.gov  if you have any questions. 

Article 40 Prior Approval for Modification of Approved Budget 

Before making any change to the DHS/FEMA approved budget for this award, you 
must request prior written approval from DHS/FEMA where required by 2 C.F.R. § 
200.308. DHS/FEMA is also utilizing its discretion to impose an additional restriction 
under 2 C.F.R. § 200.308(e) regarding the transfer of funds among direct cost 
categories, programs, functions, or activities. Therefore, for awards with an approved 
budget where the Federal share is greater than the simplified acquisition threshold 
(currently $250,000), you may not transfer funds among direct cost categories, 
programs, functions, or activities without prior written approval from DHS/FEMA where 
the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed ten percent 
(10%) of the total budget DHS/FEMA last approved. You must report any deviations 
from your DHS/FEMA approved budget in the first Federal Financial Report (SF-425) 
you submit following any budget deviation, regardless of whether the budget deviation 
requires prior written approval. 

Article 41 Disposition of Equipment Acquired Under the Federal Award 

When original or replacement equipment acquired under this award by the recipient or 
its subrecipients is no longer needed for the original project or program or for other 
activities currently or previously supported by DHS/FEMA, you must request 
instructions from DHS/FEMA to make proper disposition of the equipment pursuant to 2 
C.F.R. § 200.313. 

Article 42 Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation 

DHS/FEMA funded activities that may require an EHP review are subject to FEMA's 
Environmental Planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) review process. This review 
does not address all Federal, state, and local requirements. Acceptance of Federal 
funding requires recipient to comply with all Federal, state and local laws. Failure to 
obtain all appropriate federal, state and local environmental permits and clearances 
may jeopardize Federal funding.DHS/FEMA is required to consider the potential 
impacts to natural and cultural resources of all projects funded by DHS/FEMA grant 
funds, through its EHP Review process, as mandated by the National Environmental 
Policy Act; National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended; National Flood 
Insurance Program regulations; and, any other applicable laws and Executive Orders. 
To access the FEMA's Environmental and Historic Preservation (EHP) screening form 
and instructions go to the DHS/FEMA website at: https://www.fema.gov/media-
library/assets/documents/90195. In order to initiate EHP review of your project(s), you 
must complete all relevant sections of this form and submit it to the Grant Programs 
Directorate (GPD) along with all other pertinent project information. Failure to provide 
requisite information could result in delays in the release of grant funds.lf ground 
disturbing activities occur during construction, applicant will monitor ground 
disturbance, and if any potential archeological resources are discovered, applicant will 
immediately cease work in that area and notify the pass-through entity, if applicable, 
and DHS/FEMA. 

Obligating document 

No. 

Action 
N/A  __ 94-6000344_  AWARD 

1.Agreement No.  2. Amendment  3. Recipient  4. Type of 
EMW-2018-FH-  No. 
00405 
6. Recipient Name and 
Address 
GRIDLEY, CITY OF 
685 KENTUCKY ST 
GRIDLEY, CA 95948 

7. Issuing FEMA Office and  8. Payment Office and 
Address 
Grant Programs Directorate 
500 C Street, S.W. 
Washington DC, 20528-7000 
1-866-927-5646 

Address 
FEMA, Financial Services 
Branch 
500 C Street, S.W., Room 
723 

5. Control No. 
WX02684N2019T 
_ 

_ 

_Washington DC, 20742 

9. Name of Recipient 9a. ~ 10. Name of FEMA Project Coordinator 
Phone  Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency 
Project Officer 
Sean Norman 
No. 
530- 
282- 
2533 

Response (SAFER) Grant Program 

10a.~ -v-~ 
Phone 
No. 
1-866- 
274-0960 

11. Effective Date of 
Thís Action 

12. Method of 
Payment 

13. Assistance 
Arrangement 

09/13/2019 

OTHER -FEMA  COST SHARING 
GO 

14. Performance 
Period 
03/11 /2020 to 
03/10/2023 
Budget Period 
03/11 /2020 to 
03/10/2023 

15. Description of Action a. (Indicate funding data for awards or financial changes) 

Program 
Name 
Abbreviation No. 

Assistance Accounting Prior 
Listings  Data(ACCS Total 

Amount 
Awarded 
Th( 
Award 
o

Current Total 

;Action +Award 

Cumulative 
Non-Federal 
Commitment 

Code) 

2019-F8- 
GF01 - 
P431-xxxx- 
4101-D 

SAFER 

97.083 

$0.00  $1,159,452.00 $1,159,452.00 $0.00 

Totals $0.00  $1,159,452.00 $1,159,452.00 $0.00 
b. To describe changes other than funding data or financial changes, attach 
schedule and check here: 
N/A 

Cl1~ 

AI/lhl fIICACTCO ~~/l!^_~A11AC. ~G/'`IOICwIT IC ~Cl1111~G11 T/l CICBI Ahll'1 

,i.,C,~,,
~te~ 
This field is not applicable for digitally signed grant agreements 

17. RECIPIENT SIGNATORY OFFICIAL (Name and Title) 
Spencer Mallinger 
18. FEMA SIGNATORY OFFICAL (Name and Title) 
Bridget Bean, Acting Assistant Administrator Grant Programs 
Directorate 

DATE 
09/20/20_19 

DATE 
09/13/2019 

Gridley Fire Department, California: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 1 of 3 

This is a request for a waiver of the Position Cost Limit, Cost Share, Minimum Budget, and Supplanting 
requirements for Gridley Fire Department's FY 2018 SAFER Grant request. 

History 
While the recession of the late 2000s hit the entire country hard, recovery throughout Butte County, and 
ïn the City of Gridley specifically, has been slower than anticipated. After many years of fiscal 
challenges, the past three budget cycles are the first that the city has been able to maintain a positive 
General Fund balance after many years of deficits. 

General Fund revenues have decreased from approximately $3.5 million in FY15/16 to $3.1 million in FY 
17/18-a loss of over 10%. In order to balance the budget, the city has instituted furloughs, reduced 
operating costs, postponed capital improvements, offered an early retirement program, sought 
partnerships with adjacent jurisdictions for fire and police protection, and taken other measures to reduce 
strain on the General Fund. 

Compounding matters, according to the USDA Economic Research Service, unemployment rates 
throughout Butte County have been 1 percentage point or more above state averages each of the last 10 
years. Further, median household incomes are approximately Z/3 of the state average, while 18.1 %are 
living in poverty versus the statewide poverty rate of 13.3%. 

The city provides electrical, potable water, and sewer services within the city limits.. This service typically 
produces positive cash flow to support city services. Increased solar installations in the city have 
challenged electrical revenues in recent years. Profitably operating the city's electrical utility will become 
increasingly challenging in the years to come as California law goes into effect in 2020 requiring solar 
panels on all new construction. 

Recently, Mary's Gone Crackers, a snack food company that had grown from small startup to a national 
brand from a warehouse in Gridley over the past 15 years, moved their operation to Reno, Nevada. 
Mary's Gone Crackers had been the city's major utility account and one of the area's largest employers, 
with over 130 employees. The loss of utility revenue compounds the loss of tax revenue and loss of jobs 
that were previously considered stable. 

In addition to the lost future tax and utility revenue from Mary's Gone Crackers ceasing operations ín 
Gridley, the Electric Department recently discovered a billing error on Mary's Gone Crackers' account. 
This error created an overcharge of $324,940 over the past five fiscal years-a full 10% of the city's annual 
General Fund revenues. Since repayment of the full sum at one time would significantly impact the city's 
ability to fund critical operations, the city is currently working with Mary's Gone Crackers to negotiate a 
payment schedule. Even if a multi-year payment plan is negotiated, this billing error wí11 negatively affect 
city finances for a number of years. 

As noted in the original grant application, the 153,000 acre Camp Fire devastated the northeastern portion 
of Butte County in November, 2018, destroying some 19,000 structures and killing 85 civilians-becoming 
the deadliest and most destructive wild land fire in California history. As some 30,000 citizens evacuated, 
many settled in with friends and family ín Gridley. Also, FEMA has indicated intentions to set up evacuee 
housing in Gridley, bringing an additional 1,000 or more residents. 

With Gridley's motto being "The small town that loves company", the new citizens will be absolutely 
welcomed with open arms. Eventually, the new residents will translate into increased city revenues, 
however, in the mean time, there are increased demands for city services, from police and road repair to 
schools and fire protection. The expense for these additional services are being borne by every department 
in the city. 

Gridley Fire Department, California: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 2 of 3 

Austerity Measures 
With the influx of evacuees from the Camp Fire, there has been talk of a FEMA sponsored housing 
project proposed in Gridley. Part of those discussions has been a proposal for FEMA to provide some 
funding to offset the effects of the new residents. 

While the FEMA proposal has not been finalized, there are many competing priorities for any funds 
received, ranging from law enforcement concerns to infrastructure improvement needs to impacts to local 
schools. It has not been determined how much, if any, funds will be directed toward fire protection 
mitigations for the increased population. 

In addition, separate grant and other assistance proposals have been submitted to mitigate the impact to 
schools, police, public works, transportation, and other impacted program areas. However, it is unlikely 
that any of these funds wí11 be dedicated to fire department staffing. 

Since the Camp Fire disaster occurred just over four months ago, Gridley is still in the relatively early 
stages of determining the long-term effects of our new residents, but is actively exploring all avenues to 
secure funding to increase services. 

Operational Impact 
As noted in the main application, staffing at the fire station in Gridley has-been reduced from a minimum 
of 4 firefighters per day to a minimum of 3. Studies have shown that a team of 4 firefighters can perform 
a set of tasks 30% faster than a team of 3. As such, it is a given that the plethora of tasks that must be 
completed in the initial minutes after arrival at a working structure fire will take longer to complete. 
Therefore, we have adjusted our strategy and tactïcs accordingly. 

With our current staffing model, we do not meet NFPA 1720 benchmarks-even with extensive resource 
sharing and boundary drop aid agreements with our neighbors. Further, we must wait for another 
apparatus or a GFD volunteer to arrive in order to meet OSHA's 2ín/2 out rule. 

As a result, our operations have had to change. Instead of being able to initiate a rapid, interior fire attack 
if needed, we must now be more conservative.. This means initiating fire attack ïn a defensive manner 
from the outside of the structure, then progressing to an interior attack to accomplish full extinguishment 
once additional units arrive. This delays full extinguishment, increases property damage (both due to fire 
and additional water application), decreases likelihood of victim survivability, and increases potential for 
structural collapse injuring a firefighter. 

Since the station houses a Type 1 engine, a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland engine, and the water rescue 
pickup, trailer, and inflatable boats, having 4 people at the station allowed the ability to cross staff 
apparatus as needed. In the event of a structure fire, for example, two personnel could cross staff the quint 
and the other two respond the Type 1 engine, bringing an entire complement of hose, ladders, and tools to 
the scene, including aerial capabilities. 

The ability to cross staff apparatus in this manner is ineffective with three firefighters and poses 
firefighter safety concerns. Having one firefighter respond alone in a second apparatus separates the 
company officer from the entire crew, fragmenting communication and creating potential accountability 
issues. 

A key benefit of bringing two apparatus is to increase the inventory of tools available to the first arriving 
firefighters. With only 3 personnel, splitting the crew to complete tasks using tools from each apparatus 

Gridley Fire Department, California: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 3 of 3 

leaves one firefighter to act alone, which is unsafe. This limits the strategic options available to the first in 
company officer. 

Since its inception in 1887, Gridley Fire has striven to provide full service fire protection in the most cost-
effective manner. While the current economic climate has tested GFD's ability to maximize operational 
efficiency in every manner possible, with an influx of new residents, the Gridley's economic future looks 
promising. The city anticipates that Camp Fire evacuees-turned-residents will translate into sustainable 
tax revenue as the city recovers from the loss of Mary's Gone Crackers and the many other challenges 
noted in this waiver request. We are optimistic that city revenues will improve sufficiently incoming 
years to enable GFD to retain the SAFER positions at the end of the grant period. 

That said, even though the City Council has expressed support for this SAFER application, given the 
challenges associated with quantifying the economic effects of the Camp Fire, as well as the other short-
and. long-term economic challenges cited in this waiver request, the receipt of this waiver will be a key 
factor in the council's ability to accept a potential award. 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

Applicant's Acknowledgements 

Entire Application 

I certify the DUNS number in this application is our only DUNS number and we have confirmed it is active in SAM.gov  as 

the correct number. 

As required per 2 CFR § 25, I certify that prior to submission of this application I have checked the DUNS number listed 
in this application against the SAM.gov  website and it is valid and active at time of submission. 

I certify that the applicant organization has consulted the appropriate Notice of Funding Opportunity and that all 

requested activities are programmatically allowable, technically feasible and can be completed within the award's Period 
of Performance (POP). 

rt I certify that the applicant organization is aware that this application period is open from 02/15 to 03/22/2019 and will 
close at 5 PM EST; further that the applicant organization is aware that once an application is submitted, even if the 
application period is still open, a submitted application cannot be changed or released back to the applicant for 
modification. 

I certify that the applicant organization is aware that it is solely the applicant organization's responsibility to ensure that all 

activities funded by this awards) comply with Federal Environmental planning and Historic Preservation (EHP) 
regulations, laws, and Executive Orders as applicable. The EHP Screening Form designed to initiate and facilitate the 
EHP Review is available at: https://www.fema.gov/media-library/assets/documents/90195.  

I certify that the applicant organization ís aware that the applicant organization is ultimately responsible for the accuracy 
of all application information submitted. Regardless of the applicant's intent, the submission of information that is false or 
misleading may result in actions by FEMA that include, but are not limited to: the submitted application not being 
considered for award, an existing award being locked pending investigation, or referral to the Office of the Inspector 
General. 

Signed by Spencer Mallinger on 2019-03-22 15:49:20.0 

Overview 

*  Are you a member, or are you currently involved in the management of the fire department or 
organization applying for this grant with this application? 

Yes, I am amember/officer of this applicant 

If you answered No, you must please complete the preparer information below. If you answered Yes, please skip the 
Preparer Information section. 

Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required. 

Preparer Information 

Preparer's Name 
Address 1 
Address 2 
City 
State 

ZÍp 

Primary Phone 
Email 

Need help for ZIP+4? 
Ext.  Select 

https://eservices.ferra.goy/FemaFireGrant/flregrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 1 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

In the space below please list the person your fire department or organization has selected to be the Primary Point of 
Contact for this grant. This should be an officer, member, or employee of the fire department or organization applying for 
the grant that will see the grant through completion, has the authority to make decisions on and to act upon this grant 
application. 

The Primary Contact, as listed below, is the person for which all exchanges of information will be made relative to the 
application; all information provided must be specific to the contact listed. The Primary Contact must be an employee of 
the fire department or organization applying for the grant and shall not be a grant writer or anon-employee of the fire 
department or organization. 

In addition to the Primary Contact information, you will be asked to provide two (2) Alternate Points of Contact on the 
next page. The Alternate Contacts must be familiar with the application and must be able to answer any questions 
relative to this application in the event that Primary Point of Contact is unavailable. When you are finished, click the Save 
and Continue button below. 

Reminder: Please list only phone numbers and an email address where we can get in direct contact with the respective 
point of contact(s). If this contact changes at any time during the period of performance please update this information. 

Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required. 

Primary Point of Contact 

Firefighter II 
Select 
Spencer 

Mallinger 
30-228-0055 Ext.  Type cell 
30-538-7111 Ext.  Type work 
Ext.  Type Select 

spencer.mallinger@fire.ca.gov  

* Title 
Prefix 
* First Name 
Middle Initial 
* Last Name 
* Primary Phone 
* Secondary Phone 
Optional Phone 
Fax 
* Email 

Contact Information 

Title 
Prefix 

First Name 
Middle Initial 
Last Name 
Primary Phone 
Secondary Phone 
ptional Phone 

Fax 

Email 

Alternate Contact 1 Information 
Battalion Chief 
N/A 
Sean 

Norman 
530-282-2533 Ext.  Type cell 
530-868-5834 Ext.  Type work 
Ext.  Type Select 

sean.norman@fire.ca.gov  

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFire~rant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 2 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19,14:21 

x  Title 
Prefix 
• First Name 
Middle Initial 
t  Last Name 
Primary Phone 

` Secondary Phone 
Optional Phone 
Fax 
T  Email 

Alternate Contact 2 Information 
Division Chief 
N/A 
Jamie 

Norton 
530-638-6447 Ext.  Type cell 
530-538-6837 Ext.  Type work 
Ext.  Type Select 

'amie.norton@fire.ca.gov  

Applicant Information 

EMW-2018-FH-00405 
Originally submitted on 03/22/2019 by Spencer Mallinger (Userid: gridleyfd) 

Contact Information: 

Address: 47 East Gridley Road 
City: Gridley 
State: California 
Zip: 95948 
Day Phone: 5305387111 
Evening Phone: 
Cell Phone: 5302280055 
Email: spencer.mallinger@fire.ca.gov  

Application number is EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Applicant Information 

`Organization Name 

What kind of organization do you represent? 

If you answered "Combination" above, what is the 
percentage of career members in your organization? 
• Type of Jurisdiction Served 
If "Other", please enter the type of jurisdiction served 
In what county/parish is your organization physically 

located? If you have more than one station, in what 
county/parish is your main station located? 

Gridley Fire Department 
Combination (Majority Volunteer) 

21.43% 

City 

Butte County, CA 

SAM.gov  (System For Award Management) 
• What is the legal name of your Entity as it appears in 
SAM.gov? 
Note: This information must match your SAM.gov  profile if  Gridley, City of 
your organization is using the DUNS number of your 
urisdiction. 
What is the legal business address of your Entity as it appears in SAM.gov? 

Note: This information must match your SAM.gov  profile if your organization is using the DUNS number of your 
urisdiction. 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print  app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 3 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

h Mailing Address 1 
Mailing Address 2 

City 
State 

Zip 

685 Kentucky St 

Gridley 
California 
95948 - 21 99 
Need help for ZIP+4? 

Employer Identification Number (e.g. 12-3456789) 

Note: This information must match your SAM.gov  profile. 

94.6000344 

Is your organization using the DUNS number of your 
urisdiction? 
I certify that my organization is authorized to use the 

DUNS number of my Jurisdiction provided in this 
application. (Required if you select Yes above) 

What is your 9 digit DUNS number? 

If you were issued a 4 digit number (DUNS plus 4) by your 
urisdiction in addition to your 9 digit number please enter 
it here. 
Note: This is only required if you are using your 
urisdiction's DUNS number and have a separate bank 
account from your Jurisdiction. Leave the field blank if you 
are using your Jurisdiction's bank account or have your 
own DUNS number and bank account separate from your 
urisdiction. 
Is your DUNS Number registered in SAM.gov  (System 

or Award Management previously CCR.gov)? 

I certify that my organization/entity is registered and 

active at SAM.gov  and registration will be renewed 
annually in compliance with Federal regulations. I 
acknowledge that the information submitted in this 
application is accurate, current and consistent with my 
organization's/entity's SAM.gov  record. 
Headquarters or Main Station Physical Address 
Physical Address 1 

Physical Address 2 
R  City 
`State 

Zip 

Mailing Address 
• Mailing Address 1 
Mailing Address 2 

City 
State 

Zip 

Bank Account Information 

Yes 

040477788 
(call 1-866-705-5711 to get a DUNS number) 

Yes 

7 East Gridley Road 

Gridley 
California 
5948 - 2603 

Need help for ZIP+4? 

685 Kentucky St 

Gridley 
California 
95948 - 2199 
Need help for ZIP+4? 

The bank account being used is: (Please select one from 

right) 

Maintained by my Jurisdiction 

Note: The following banking information must match your SAM.gov  profile. 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application  print app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 4 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19,14:21 

Type of bank account 

Bank routing number - 9 digit number on the bottom left 

hand corner of your check 

Your account number 
Additional Information 
• For this fiscal year (Federal) is your jurisdiction receiving 
Federal funding from any other grant program that may 
uplicate the purpose and/or scope of this grant request? 

Is the applicant delinquent on any federal debt? 

Checking 

121000248 

8357298887 

No 

No 

I 

If you answered "Yes" to any of the additional questions above, please provide an explanation in the space provided 
below (4000 characters) 

Applicant Characteristics (Part I) 

• Is this application being submitted on behalf of a Federal 
Fire Department or organization contracted by the Federal 
government which is solely responsible for the suppression 
of fires on Federal property? 

No 

Please indicate the type of community your organization 
serves. 

Urban 

Please describe  our or anization and/or the communit y 
hat you serve (2000 characgters) . 

ith origins dating to 1887, the Gridley Fire Department 

(GFD) provides all risk fire protection for the City of Gridley, 
California. Located 60 miles north of Sacramento in the 
middle of the fertile Sacramento Valley, Gridley is home to 
,000 permanent residents, plus an estimated 1,000 
vacuees from the nearby Town of Paradise, which was 
evastated during the Camp wildfire in November, 2018. This 
ear, Gridley really lived up to its motto: The small town that 
loves company. Agriculture has been a staple of Gridley and 
he surrounding area since the 1860s, and continues to 
upport the local economy to this day. Since the railroad 
ame to town in the 1870s, agriculture related industries have 
become a mainstay. The Libbys cannery that opened in 1896 
became the largest peach canning operation in the world 
before it closed in the early 2000s. The 558,000 square foot 
annery building caught fire in 2015. Even with GFDs limited 
taffing, the fire was confined to roughly 120,000 square feet, 
aving over 3/a  of the structure and contents. GFD consists of 
both career and volunteer firefighters, operating a station that 
is jointly funded by GFD and Butte County Fire Department 
(BCFD). As part of a cooperative agreement, GFD and BCFD 
plit the cost to staff, maintain, and equip the station. GFD is 
Iso responsible for coordinating the county-wide interagency 
ater rescue team, housing a rescue support pickup and 
railer that carry two inflatable boats and water rescue gear. 
s a CAL OES Type II water rescue team, the 30 member, 

interagency, county-wide team is routinely deployed 
hroughout the region, completing 30 to 60 or more swift- and 
tatic-water rescues each year. For over 130 years, GFD has 
ocused on community involvement and customer service. 

https://eservices.Tema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print  app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 5 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 1421 

GFD volunteers have organized the annual Red Suspenders 
Day each spring since 1961, an event that draws some 8,000 
attendees for a parade, bed races, and other fun firefighter 
hemed events. 

What is the square mileage of your first-due response 
area? Primary/First Due Response Area is a geographical 
area proximate to a fire or rescue facility and normally 
served by the personnel and apparatus from that facility in 
he event of a fire or other emergency and does not include 
aily or seasonal population surges. 
What percentage of your primary response area is 
protected by hydrants? 

• Does your organization protect critical infrastructure? 

84 

5 % 

Yes 

If Yes, please describe the critical infrastructure protected 
(3000 characters) . 
GFD is responsible for fire protection for the following facilities: Gridley City Hall Orchard Hospital, a 45 bed acute care 
hospital with emergency services. Historic downtown Gridley, with many buildings that date back to the city's founding 
150 years ago and remain historically intact. Hazel Hotel, Gridley's only remaining railroad-era hotel was built in 1888, 
NPS National Register of Historic Places #01000705. Silk Stocking Row, a series of victorian style homes from the late 
1890s that have been well preserved in their original condition. These multi-story homes were built using balloon frame 
construction, making rapid extension of a fire from floor to floor a significant challenge. Hovlid Community Care Center, an 
82 bed skilled nursing facility. Gridley Veterans Memorial Hall is used for many community events and is typically the 
city's primary polling place during elections. City owned electric, water, and sewer utility facilities housing generation, 
processing, and distribution equipment. The cannery complex, consisting of two adjacent buildings covering some one 
million square feet of warehouse and goods processing for multiple businesses. This is the location of the cannery fire in 
2015 mentioned in the other areas of this application. Butte County Fairgounds-a 38 acre complex used for the annual 
county fair, rodeos, dog shows, and other community events. Three elementary schools and one middle and one high 
school. Wild Goose underground gas storage facility with a capacity of 75 billion cubic feet of natural gas, servicing all of 
Northern California and beyond. State Highway 99 bisects the City of Gridley, carrying some 23,000 vehicles per day, 
10% of which are trucks carrying cargo of all types from throughout the state and across the west coast. 
(Percentages in three answers below must sum up to 100%) 
• How much of your primary response area is for 
agriculture, wildland, open space, or undeveloped 
properties? 
`What percentage of your primary response area is for 
commercial and industrial purposes? 
What percentage of your primary response area is used 
or residential purposes? 

1 

1 

% 

How many occupied structures (commercial, industrial, 
residential, or institutional) in your primary response area 
are more than three (3) stories tall? Do not include 
structures which are not regularly occupied such as silos, 
owers, steeples, etc. 
What is the permanent resident population of your 
Primary/First-Due Response Area or jurisdiction served? 

Do you have a seasonal increase in population? 

1 

500 

No 

If Yes what is your seasonal increase in population? 
* How many stations are operated by your organization? 

1 

Please indicate if your department has a formal 

automatic/mutual aid agreement with another community or 
ire department and the type of agreement that exists. 

Both automatic and mutual aid 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 6 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

What services does your organization provide?  

i  

Basic Life Support 

Emergency Medical Responder 
Haz-Mat Operational Level 
Haz-Mat Technical Level 

Rescue Operational Level 
Rescue Technical Level 
Structural Fire Suppression 
Wildland Fire Suppression 

SAFER intends to improve local fire departments' staffing and deployment capabilities so they may more effectively 
respond to emergencies. With the enhanced staffing, a SAFER grant recipient's response time will be reduced sufficiently 
and an appropriate number of trained personnel will be assembled at the incident scene. 

he following questions are designed to help us understand the staffing changes that have occurred in your department 
over the past several years and how the grant will assist in improving your staffing levels. The information provided must 
be a true and accurate depiction of your department on the timelines listed below. 

Use the following definitions when completing the table below. 

otal # of Operational Career Personnel  —this number represents the total number offull-time operational career 
personnel employed by your department on the dates indicated. (Note: only operational personnel —including 
operational officers -should be included) 

Operational Officers — of the operational career personnel indicated in the "Total # of Operational Career Personnel" 

question, how many of those serve in operational officer-level (both command and company) positions? 

NFPA Compliance  — of the "Total # of Operational Career Personnel" indicated, how many are assigned to field or 

response apparatus positions that directly support the department's compliance with NFPA 1710 (Section 5.2.4.1 
— Single-Family Dwelling Initial Full Alarm Assignment Capability) or NFPA 1720 (Section 4.3 —Staffing and 
Deployment)? (Note: Officers should only be included in this number if they directly support the department's 
compliance with NFPA 1710 or NFPA 1720 compliance) 

Note: The number of career personnel in any of these fields should include positions which are job-shared. Job-shared 
positions will be counted as one (1) regardless of how many personnel fill those positions. 

For more information regarding these standards please see the Notice of Funding Opportunity or go to 
www.nfpa.org/freeaccess  

What is the department's current (at the start of the 

application period) budgeted operational staffing level? 
(NOTE: include all budgeted positions, even if they are not 
currently filled) 

Total # of Operational 

#Operational 

Career Personnel 

Officers 

#NFPA 
Support 

3 

• Staffing levels at the start of the application period 
Staffing levels at one year prior to the start of the 
application period 
Staffing levels at two years prior to the start of the 
application period 
* If awarded this grant, what will the staffing levels be in 
your department? Note: These numbers should reflect the 
staffing levels at the start of the application period plus the 
number of positions being requested in the application. 
(Whole Numbers only) 
Please provide details on the department's existing staffing model to include the number of shifts, number of positions 

1 

1 

1 

1 

5 

3 

5 

5 

5 

4 

4 

per shift, chief level officer staffing per shift (i.e., Battalion Chief, District Chief, etc.), and contracted work hours. (3000 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 7 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 1421 

haracters) 
Gridley Fire (GFD) and Butte County Fire (BCFD) joíntly operate a single station within the Gridley City limits. This 
ecades old cooperative agreement provides mutually beneficial economies of scale, while offering a higher level of 
service to both jurisdictions than could be provided if each department operated independently. As part of the agreement, 
he departments share the cost of personnel and day-to-day operations. Historically, minimum daily staffing at the jointly 
operated station has been four firefighters, with GFD and BCFD each funding sufficient personnel to each provide two 
personnel per day. With GFDs budget shortfalls in recent years, GFDs roster has been reduced from 5 to 3. As a result, 
combined minimum daily staffing has been reduced to three, as BCFD has not been in a position to subsidize GFDs 
deficit. Apparatus at the station are cross staffed as conditions dictate, with each department responsible for maintaining 
he vehicles they supply. GFD provides a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland engine, a pickup and trailer equipped with 
inflatable boats and water rescue gear, and a Type 1 reserve engine. BCFD provides the first-due Type 1 engine and a 
reserve engine from elsewhere in BCFDs fleet when that engine is in for maintenance in addition to duty chief coverage 
every day. Firefighters for both GFD and BCFD work an unconventional schedule-72 hours on followed by 96 hours off. 

his creates a 3 on/4 off pattern with each person assigned the same days each week. While the schedule creates 

consistency for the employee, it creates a situation where there are a different number of personnel on duty each day, 
ersus a traditional three platoon style schedule. Our firefighters are scheduled 72 hours per week and receive overtime 
after 53 hours. Each firefighter earns 19 hours of planned overtime (called EDWC) each week. Hours above 72 per week 
receive unplanned overtime at the same hourly rate as EDWC. With this schedule and 3 firefighters, GFD is able to 
schedule one firefighter per day on five days per week and two firefighters per day on two days per week. When paired 

ith BCFD maintaining two firefighters every day, this provides a total of three firefighters five days per week and four 
irefighters two days per week. GFDs firefighters are augmented by a roster of 11 fully qualified volunteer firefighters with 
one additional in training. In general, GFDs volunteers are dispatched to any multi-engine response in and around the 
City of Gridley, such as traffic collisions and all types of fires, in addition to selected medical aids and other calls for 
service. GFDs volunteers operate a BCFD owned water tender, providing the primary water source to areas in and 
around Gridley that do not have a municipal water source. After considering their regular job, family commitments, and 
other obligations, GFDs volunteers routinely provide an average of two firefighters per working fire to augment our career 
staff. 

` Does your department utilize part-time paid firefighters? 

No 

If Yes, please provide details on how the part-time firefighters are used within your department to include the number of 
part-time firefighters, the number of full-time, NFPA compliant positions these part-time firefighters occupy, if applicable, 
and how they are scheduled to meet your staffing needs (300o characters) . 
` Does your department utilize reserve/relief paid 
irefighters? 
If yes, please provide details on how the reserve/relief firefighters are used within your department to include the number 
of reserve/relief firefighters, the number of full-time, NFPA compliant positions these part-time firefighters occupy, if 
applicable, and how they are scheduled to meet your staffing needs (s000 characters) . 
` Do you currently report to the National Fire Incident 
Reporting System (NFIRS)? 

Yes 

No 

Applicant Characteristics (Part II) 

2019 

2018 

2017 

` What is the total number of fire-related civilian fatalities in 
our jurisdiction over the last three calendar years? 
•What is the total number offire-related civilian injuries in 
our jurisdiction over the last three calendar years? 
` What is the total number of line of duty member fatalities 
in your jurisdiction over the last three calendar years? 
`What is the total number of line of duty member injuries in 
our jurisdiction over the last three calendar years? 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

1 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 8 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 1421 

What is your department's operating budget (e.g., 
ersonnel, maintenance of apparatus, equipment, facilities, 
tility costs, purchasing expendable items, etc.) related to 
re-related programs and emergency response for the 
urrent (at time of application) fiscal year? 
What was your department's operating budget (e.g., 
ersonnel, maintenance of apparatus, equipment, facilities, 
tility costs, purchasing expendable items, etc.} related to 
re-related programs and emergency response for the 
revious three fiscal years? 

~ Fiscal Year: 2018 Budget: $ 763,473 

~ 

Fiscal Year: 2017 Budget: $ 890,600 

Fiscal Year: 2016 Budget: $ 758,255 

Fiscal Year: 2015 Budget: $ 739,577 

'lease indicate in the text box next to each of the budget 
gures what fiscal year that amount pertains to. 
What percentage of your operating budget is dedicated to 
ersonnel costs (salary, benefits, overtime costs, etc.)? 
Does your department have any rainy day reserves, 
mergency funds, or capital outlay? 
yes, what is the total amount currently set aside? 
yes, describe the planned purpose of these funds (loon 
laracters) . 
What percentage of your annual operating budget is derived from: Enter numbers only, percentages must sum up to 

No 

100% 

Taxes? 

Bond Issues? 

EMS Billing? 

Grants? 

Donations? 

Fund drives? 

Fee for Service? 

Other? 

100 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

If you entered a value other than 0 into the "Other" 
field, please explain (i000 characters) 

How many frontline vehicles does your organization have in each of the types or classes of vehicle listed below that 
~spond to first alarm assignments in support of NFPA 1710/1720? You must include vehicles that are leased or on 
mg-term loan as well as any vehicles that have been ordered or otherwise currently under contract for purchase or lease 
y your organization but not yet in your possession. Enter numbers only and enter 0 if you do not have any of the vehicles 
elow. 

Type or Class of Vehicle 

Number 

of Frontline 

Vehicles 

Total Number 
of Available 

Riding 

Positions 

Total Number of 

Filled Riding 

positions 

Engines or Pumpers (pumping capacity of 750 gpm or 
greater and water capacity of 300 gallons or more): 
Pumper, Pumper/Tanker, Rescue/Pumper, Foam Pumper, CAFS 
Pumper, Type I or Type II Engine Urban Interface 

Ambulances for transport and/or emergency response 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 9 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19,14:21 

Tankers Or Tenders (pumping capacity of less than 750 
gallons per minute (gpm) and water capacity of 1,000 gallons or 
more) 

Aerial Apparatus: 
Aerial Ladder Truck, Telescoping, Articulating, Ladder Towers, 
Platform, Tiller Ladder Truck, Quint 

Brush/Quick attack (pumping capacity of less than 750 gpm 
and water carrying capacity of at least 300 gallons): 
Brush Truck, Patrol Unit (Pickup w/Skid Unit), Quick Attack Unit, 
Mini-Pumper, Type III Engine, Type IV Engine, Type V Engine, 
Type VI Engine, Type VII Engine 

Rescue Vehicles: 
Rescue Squad, Rescue (Light, Medíum, Heavy), Technical 
Rescue Vehicle, Hazardous Materials Unit 

Additional Vehicles: 
EMS Chase Vehicle, Air/Light Unit, Rehab Units, Bomb Unit, 
Technical Support (Command, Operational Support/Supply), 
Hose Tender, Salvage Truck, ARFF (Aircraft Rescue 
Firefighting), Command/Mobile Communications Vehicle 

0 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

4 

4 

4 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

0 

Please use this comments section if you wish to provide 
any additional information with regards to the Type or 
Class of Vehicle section above (200o characters) . 

Gridley Fire (GFD) owns a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland 
engine, and a pickup with trailer outfitted with two inflatable 
boats and water rescue equipment as part of the county-wide 
ater rescue team. GFD also owns a Type 1 fire engine that 
is used as a reserve when the quint is down for maintenance. 

Department Call Volume 

I 

I 

2018 

I 

2017 

I 

2016 

II 

Summary of responses per year by category (Enter whole 
number only. If you have no calls for any of the categories, Enter 0) 

Fire -NFIRS Series 100 
Overpressure Rupture, Explosion, Overheat (No Fire) - 
NFIRS Series 200 
Rescue &Emergency Medical Service Incident -NFIRS 
Series 300 
Hazardous Condition (No Fire) -NFIRS Series 400 
Service Call -NFIRS Series 500 
Good Intent Call -NFIRS Series 600 
False Alarm &False Call -NFIRS Series 700 
Severe Weather &Natural Disaster -NFIRS Series 800 
Special Incident Type -NFIRS Series 900 
otal 

FIRES 

48 

16 

783 

31 
61 
32 
61 
0 
0 

36 

19 

818 

30 
93 
20 
48 
0 
0 

1032 

1064 

31 

4 

815 

16 
102 
17 
56 
0 
0 

1041 

" HOW many responses per year by Category? (Enter whole number only. If you have no calls for any of the categories, Enter 0) 

Of the NFIRS Series 100 calls, how many are "Structure 
Fire" (NFIRS Codes 111-120) 

12 

14 

7 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app  number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 10 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19,14:21 

Request Details 

The activities for your organization are listed in the table below. 

Hiring of Firefighters 

Activity 

Number of Entries 

1 

Total Cost 
1,170,354 

1 

FEMA Form 080-0-4 

~ 

Hiring of Firefighters 

1. Select  which line-item below best describes your organization and the  NFPA standard you are attempting to meet.  

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 11 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

Check 
One 

NFPA Standard 
(see the Notice of 

Funding Opportunity 

for more detail 
regarding these 

standards) 

NFPA Requirements 

Department 

Characteristics 

Demographic 

Assembly 
Staffing 

Response 

Time 

Frequency of 

Time 

~— 
~— 

1710 
1710 

Career 
Career 

1720 -Urban 

Urban ComboNol 

X 

1720 -Suburban 

Suburban 
ComboNol 

1720 -Rural 

Rural ComboNol 

With Aerial 

Without Aeríal 

> 1,000 pop/square 

mile 

500 - 1,000 

pop/square mile 
~ 500 pop/square 

mile 

~—  1720 -Remote 

Remote Combo/Vol 

Travel > 8  mi  

15 
14 

15 

10 

6 

4 

8 min 
8 min 

9 min 

90% 
90% 

90% 

10 min 

80% 

14 min 

n/a 

80% 

90% 

' 2. Based on the current staffing levels, how often does 
/our department meet the NFPA assembly requirements as 
ndicated in the table above for the department's primary/fir: 
iue response area? 

(1 to 19%) 

DOTE: If your department utilizes overtime to fill positions to 
Insure you are meeting applicable NFPA staffing and 
leployment standards, you should remove the number of 
Iositions filled by overtime from your calculations. 
2a. If awarded the number of positions requested in this 
Ipplication, how often do you anticipate that your 
lepartment will meet the NFPA assembly requirements as 
~dicated in the table above? 
3. Based on the current staffing levels, what is the 
Iverage actual staffing level on your first arriving engine 
company or vehicle capable of initiating suppression 
ictivities on the number of structure fires indicated in the 
Department Call Volume" section of your application? (Up 
~ one decimal i.e., 2.5) 

_: If your department utilizes overtime to fill positions to 
'e you are meeting applicable NFPA staffing and 
~yment standards, you should remove the number of 
ohs filled by overtime from vour calculations. 

3a. If awarded the number of positions requested in this 
application, what will be the average actual staffing level on 
/our first arriving engine company or vehicle capable of 
vitiating suppression activities on the number of structure 
'fires indicated in the "Department Call Volume" section of 
/our application? (Up to one decimal i.e., 2.5) 
' 4. Describe the department's step-by-step hiring process 
,application period, written test, physical, approval). The 
imeline for each step must be included and you must 
iscuss how long, after award, you will be able to start a 
~ecruit class. If you are requesting more positions than can 
~e trained in one recruit class, please discuss when you will 
~e able to hold the second class. (2000 characters) . 

ost of the Time (80 to 99%) 

he Gridley Fire Department (GFD) recruits from athird-
arty statewide eligibility list. To apply for the list, applicants 
lust be within two months of 18 years of age and have 
ither: 
hree months firefighting experience or 
fine year experience as a certified volunteer firefighter or 
completion of training courses, prerequisite to Fire Fighter I 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print  app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 12 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

Irtjtjcatjon or  
ne  year of experience as a Fire Prevention Specialist I and 
Impletion of the mandatory training courses prescribed for 
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Fire Fighter I. 

Jnce the application is accepted and minimum qualifications 
ire verified, the applicant is invited to complete a written 
;xam. The applicant's score on the exam determines their 
placement on the third-party's eligibility list. The list typically 
;ontains hundreds of qualified, pre-screened applicants and 
s updated periodically. The third-party conducts all pre-
~mployment activities up to this point. 

,s GFD identifies vacancies, the department requests the  
ames  from the eligibility list of those who indicated they 
could like employment in our area on their application. GFD 
onducts interviews, resume review, and/or other candidate 
election screenings. Once a candidate is selected, they 
omplete a medical exam, background check, and, if 
uccessful, are offered employment. This process can take 
p to six weeks. 

spending upon the experience of the candidates, GFD 
~y provide an in house on-the-job training program or 
nd the candidate to a seven-week firefighter academy the 
tte fire training facility. Candidates, upon placement at the 
► tion, complete a 3 year firefighter apprenticeship 
~Qram. 

iBoth firefighters displaced were absorbed by nearby 
(departments with vacancies at that time. If possible, GFD 
i~ivill to allow them to return to GFD if they desire. This allows 
GFD to hire the SAFER positions at minimal cost within a 
few weeks of an award while reducing training costs and 
disruption of daily operations. 
10 

Yes 

The department will need the approval of the City Council to 
accept an award. The council has indicated that they 
support the department's SAFER application and, pending 
the current status of city finances at the time, intend on 
approving an award. 

~r the award, the item must be put on the agenda for City 
Incil approval. Depending on the timing of the award and 
council's meeting schedule, it may be up to two months 
ire the council has an opportunity to vote. Once the 
ncil approves, it would only take a week or two to 
tplete anv final documentation to finalize the award. 

* 5. How many recruits can be trained in one academy 
class? 

6.Does the department need governing body approval to 

accept the award and hire the positions? 
6a. If yes, provide details on the timeline needed for 
acceptance. (i000 characters) 

* 7. Is your request for hiring firefighters based on a risk 
analysis, staffing needs analysis, or an Insurance Services 
Office (ISO) rating? 
7a. If Yes, describe how the analysis was conducted and the Our request is based on a review of current staffing levels, 
outcome of the analysis or ISO rating. (i000 characters) 
INFPA 1720 benchmarks, and delays meeting OSHAs 2 in/2 

I Yes 

I

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 13 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

gut rule due to our reduced staffing. In addition, FEMA plans 
o relocate up to 1,000 or more evacuees from areas 
iamaged by the Camp Fire in November, 2018, which will 
ncrease the number of calls for service. 

Jith our station typically staffed with three personnel, we 
urrently must wait for the next arriving engine or a 
olunteer to arrive before making an interior attack on a 
corking fire in order to comply with OSHAs 2 in/2 out rule. 

even with GFDs aid agreements with all neighboring fire 
epartments, only two neighboring departments can supply 
ersonnel to GFDs jurisdiction in under 10 minutes, with the 
;st being 15 or more minutes away. Since all our neighbor's 
pparatus are staffed with just two personnel, we typically 
ave seven to eight career personnel and an average of two 
olunteers at scene within the NFPA 1720-Suburban 
enchmark of 10 minutes. 

* 8.If awarded a grant, will you provide the new hires with 
entry-level physicals in accordance with NFPA 1582: 
Standard on Comprehensive Occupational Medical Program specifications 
or Fire Departments 2013 Edition, Chapter 6? 
* 9. Do you currently provide annual medical/physical 
exams in accordance with NFPA 1582: Standard on 
Comprehensive Occupational Medical Program for Fire 
Departments 2013 Edition, Chapter 6? 

No, but will provide other physicals not to 
NFPA 1582 specifications 

No, but will provide other physicals not to NFPA 1582 

10. Will the personnel hired meet the minimum EMS 
aining and certification as required by your Authority 
aving Jurisdiction (AHJ)? 

Yes 

* 11. Does your department currently have a policy in place II Yes 
o recruit and hire veterans? 
~
1 a. If yes, please provide a brief description of the policy in Gridley Fire Department (GFD) values the characteristics 
lace (i000 characters) . 

and skills veterans bring with them to the workplace. As 
noted elsewhere in this application, GFD draws potential 
andidates from athird-party eligibility list. As part of the 
ranking process for the list, candidates can earn veterans 
preference points for verified military service. 

12. Is it your department's intent to sustain the positions 
filled under this grant after the completion of the period of 
performance? 
12a. If yes, please provide a brief description on how the 
positions will be sustained. (t000 characters) 

ile none of the three current GFD firefighters are 
trans, GFD has employed a number of veterans over the 
rs who have proven valuable to GFD and the community, 

Yes 

With the sudden influx of evacuees from Paradise due to the 
Camp Fire in November 2018, Gridleys city resources are 
currently stretched thin. As evacuees establish permanent 
residence in the city, we anticipate property and sales tax 
revenues will eventually increase for the city, offsetting the 
current increased demand for services. We are optimistic 
that the increased tax revenues from new permanent 
residents will be sufficient to sustain the SAFER grant 
positions by the end of the SAFER period. 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 14 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

FEMA Form 080-0-4a 

Budget Item 
* How many full-time firefighter positions, including positions that will be  2 
~ob-shared, are you requesting? 

"Full-time" is considered 2,080 hours or more worked per year and 
entitles the employee to receive benefits earned by the other full-time 
employees in the organization. "Job-share" is the term used to describe 
he hiring of more than one person to fill one full-time position. Part-time 
positions are less than 2,080 hours per year. Often part-time employees 
o not earn benefits or do not earn them at the same rate or level as full- 
ime employees 
If you are requesting to fund afull-time positions) that will be "job- 
shared" by more than one individual you must indicate how many 
individuals will fill the position(s), how they will be used and scheduled to 
ill the position(s), and provide an explanation as to why the position will 
be shared. (1000 characters) 

What are the current usual annual costs of a first-year firefighter in your  Annual 
department? 

Salary:  $ 98,028 
Annual 
$ 97 031 
Benefits: 

"Usual annual costs" includes the base salary (exclusive of non-ELBA 
overtime) and the standard benefits package (including the average 
health cost, dental, vision, FICA, life insurance, retirement/pension, etc.) 
offered by the fire departments to first-year (i.e. entry-level) firefighters. 
* What costs are included in the standard benefits package your 
department provides to first-year firefighters? You must provide details 
on the dollar amounts or percentages for each benefit being provided 
(health costs (family, employee only, employee plus one), dental, vision,  contract (19 hours per week = 72 hours 
FICA, life insurance, retirement/pension, etc.). (2000 characters) 

he standard benefit package includes the 
ollowing: Salary: $5098.00 Planned Overtime: 
$2817.00 19 hours per week per bargaining unit 

NOTE: Failure to provide this information may results in reductions to 
he requested amounts. 

scheduled - 53 hours straight time) Educational 
Incentive: $75.00 per bargaining unit contract 
Uniform Allowance: $179.00 per bargaining unit 
contract Total Benefits: $6268.26 Retirement: 
$3770.49 Employee Leave Buyout: $144.62 
Health/DentalNision: $1429.99 Medicare: 
$115.84 Survivors Benefits: $6.12 Prefunding of 
Post Employment Benefits: $351.56 Workers 
Compensation: $449.64 Administrative Costs: 
$1817.67 Total Per Month: $16,254.92 Total 
Annual: $195,059.04 

FEMA Form 080-0-4a 

Budget 

Hiring of Firefighters: 

There is a three-year period of performance for grants awarded under the Hiring of Firefighters Activity. The 
amount of Federal funding provided to a recipient for hiring a firefighter in any fiscal year may not exceed - 

https://eservices.Tema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 15 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

•  Year One: 75 percent of the usual annual costs of a first-year firefighter as provided in the Request Details 
section; 
•  Year Two: 75 percent of the usual annual cost of a first-year firefighter as provided in the Request Details 
section; 
•  Year Three: 35 percent of the usual annual cost of a first-year firefighter as provided in the Request Details 
section. 

Review and confirm the budget information below. If you need to change any of the budget amounts on the 
matrix, you will need to update the information on the previous Request Details screen. 

When you are finished, press the Save and Continue button below. 
Budget Matrix 

First 

Second 

Third 

12-Month Period 

12-Month Period 

12-Month Period 

Total 

Personnel 
Benefits 

otal : 
otal Applicant Share 
otal Federal Share 

196,056 
194,062 
90,118 
97,529 
292,589 

196,056 
194,062 
90,118 
7,529 
92,589 

196,056 
194,062 
90,118 
53,576 
136,542 

588,168 
582,186 
1,170,354 

48,634 
21,720 

Narrative Statement for Hiring of FireFighters 

FEMA Form 080-0-4a 

~` Element #1 -Project Description (30%): 

~ 

1 a. Why does the department need the positions requested in this application? (250o characters) 

~s noted elsewhere in this application, Gridley Fire (GFD) has partnered with Butte County Fire (BCFD) to jointly fund 
end operate a fire station within the Gridley City limits. Both entities contribute to staffing and operational costs. This 
arrangement provides economies of scale, allowing both GFD and BCFD to offer a superior level of service to their 
respective jurisdictions at a fraction of the cost of independent, parallel operations. Recently, the City of Gridley's 
~evenues have not kept pace with increasing expenses. As a result, GFDs budget has become increasingly constrained, 
eading to a reduction in total firefighters from five to three and the loss of the city's Fire Marshall position. Since both 
.GFD and BCFD fund firefighters at the fire station, the minimum daily staffing has been reduced from four to three. Since 
he reductions, we are no longer able to consistently meet NFPA 1720-Suburban assembly benchmarks and are delayed 
n initiating interior fire attack operations, as we must wait for a neighboring department or a GFD volunteer to arrive at 
scene before making entry in order to comply with OSHAs 2 in/2 out rule. The two positions requested will increase 
àFDs total roster to five, allowing GFD to resume providing two firefighters per day, bringing the minimum number of 
irefighters assigned per day to four. Since the station houses a Type 1 engine, a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland engine, 
end the water rescue pickup, trailer, and inflatable boats, having four people at the station will allow cross staffing any 
apparatus as needed. In the event of a wildland fire, two personnel can cross staff to the Type 3 engine while the other 
wo respond the Type 1 engine, allowing additional suppression capabilities and additional water. In the event of a 
structure fire, two personnel can cross staff the quint and the other two respond the Type 1 engine, bringing an entire 
;omplement of hose, ladders, and tools to the scene, including aerial capabilities. In addition to the 1,000 or more 
evacuees expected to inhabit FEMA trailers in the city as a result of the thousands of homes burned during the Camp Fire 
n November, 2018, there has been an increase in population throughout the rest of the city, as many evacuees have 
aken up temporary residence with family or friends in Gridley. While the city hopes to eventually realize tax revenue from 
he increased population in the future, services must be provided to the new residents. 

1 b. How will the positions requested in this application be used within the department (e.g., 4th on engine, open 

https://eservices.Tema,gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 16 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 1421 

new station, eliminate browned out stations, reduce overtime)? (2500 characters) 

he additional firefighters will be utilized to ensure that Gridley Fire (GFD) is able to provide two firefighters per day to 
tall the station that is jointly operated with Butte County Fire (BCFD). This will bring the daily minimum staffing at the 
tation to four. GFD and BCFD split the cost of staffing and operating the shared station, which has proven cost effective 
nd mutually beneficial to both jurisdictions. As part of the agreement, both GFD and BCFD provide two firefighters per 
ay. With GFDs budget shortfalls, two of GFDs five firefighters have been displaced in recent years, making it impossible 
~r GFD to provide two firefighters every day. Additionally, the firefighters hired under this proposal will be trained and 
ualified to operate all apparatus at the station,. as has historically been the practice at GFD, and is part of the staffing 
greement with BCFD. Since GFD provides the 100 foot aerial quint, having two qualified quint operators on duty at all  
mes  is critical to the safe and effective operation of this apparatus. This grant proposal will not only allow GFD to live up 
~ the agreement with BCFD, but will ensure that a minimum of four firefighters are available at the station every day, two 
f which being quint qualified. Since the station houses a Type 1 engine, a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland engine, and 
ie water rescue pickup, trailer, and inflatable boats, having four people at the station will allow the flexibility to cross staff 
ny apparatus as needed in order to provide additional operational flexibility at the scene of an emergency, as outlined 
Isewhere in this application. Cross staffing has not been an option recently as a result of the staffing reductions. 

1c. What specific benefits will the requested positions provide to the department and community? (2500 
laracters) 

fhe first benefit is ensuring that there are sufficient personnel on duty at all times to conduct an effective coordinated fire 
attack. The more firefighters at scene, the more tasks that can be safely conducted simultaneously. While Gridley Fire 
'GFD) would love the staffing levels of a large city that permit each firefighter to be assigned one task at a time, that level 
if service is not fiscally responsible, nor reasonably expected, given the size of our community. Over the years, GFD and 
3utte County Fire (BCFD), who jointly operate the station in Gridley, have found that providing foúr firefighters per day in 
cur city strikes a reasonable balance between fiscal responsibility and firefighting capability, as demonstrated by an 
ncident a few years ago. On December 30, 2015, a fire started in a 558,000 square foot peach cannery and warehouse. 
Nith four firefighters on duty that day, multiple tasks were able to be performed within minutes of arrival, including 
assuming command and scene size up, securing utilities, deploying large diameter hand lines, securing a water source, 
orcible entry, and raising 35 foot extension ladders to access the roof for ventilation. Had these actions not been 
;ompleted simultaneously, it is unlikely that the fire would have been confined to roughly 120,000 square feet, saving over 
%a  of the structure. Studies show that tasks are completed 30% faster by a team of four firefighters versus a team of 
hree. When tasks are delayed, the fire continues to grow, increasing property damage and potential for firefighter injury. 
one of GFDs critical infrastructure is an area of town known as Silk Stocking Row, a series of historic multi-story victorian 
tomes dating to the late 1890s. Construction practices at the time did not call for fire blocking between floors, a method 
mown as balloon frame. GFD has experienced many fires in these structures and have found that, if not kept in check 
;arty, extension to upper floors is inevitable. With our current three person staffing, we are unable to make entry until 
additional units arrive, as a result of OSHAs 2 in/2 out rule. The resulting delay can result in unchecked fire spread to 
upper floors, increasing damage. With four firefighters arriving simultaneously, we will meet the 2 in/2 out requirements 
end, depending on conditions, can make an aggressive interior attack, confining the fire to the floor of origin, thus 
minimizing damage to these historic structures. 

1 d. Describe how funds awarded through this grant would enhance the department's ability to protect critical 
nfrastructure within the primary response area. (2500 characters) 

returning our minimum daily staffing to four firefighters will directly translate into an improved ability to protect our critical 
Ifrastructure. Many of our critical infrastructure occupancies are two- to three-story buildings constructed 100 or more 
ears ago. As such, fires in these occupancies are significantly more complex than the many 1,000 to 1,500 square foot, 
Ingle story, single family residences that are common in GFDs jurisdiction The additional staffing requested will allow 
ur firefighters the ability to perform multiple tasks simultaneously, while providing for OSHA required 2 in/2 out 
nmediately upon arrival at scene. As detailed in the description of the warehouse fire in GFDs jurisdiction a few years 
ack elsewhere in this application, our firefighters' ability to perform multiple labor intensive tasks simultaneously was key 
~ containing the fire to less than  t/a  of the 558,000 square foot warehouse and cannery facility. While damage to the 
Iructure was over $1 million, the remaining portions of the facility were able to resume business rather quickly, 
iaintaining tax revenue for the city. Since the city operates the local electrical, water, and sewer utilities, this also 

https://eservices.Tema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print  app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 17 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

reserved utility revenues for the city. Had this structure housed the city water pump system, the hospital, 
ommunications distribution equipment, or other occupancy essential to town services, the entire city's operations could 
e disrupted for an extended period. Limiting damage to these structures. will minimize the time and money required to 
;store the affected services. In addition, GFDs aerial operations have proven extremely effective in recent years, 
Ilowing rapid access to the roof of the multi-story residential and commercial occupancies in our jurisdiction. Access to 
iany of these occupancies' roofs are challenging using only ground ladders, either due to uneven terrain or architectural 
natures of the roof area or the structure itself. Since all GFD firefighters are trained and qualified to operate GFDs 100 
sot quint, this grant will ensure that GFD will be able to provide two qualified quint operators every day, maximizing safes 
nd efficiency. Utilization of the quint's aerial capabilities has contributed to limiting losses in many of the city's large and 
istoric structures over the years. 

`Element #2 -Impact on Daily Operations (30%): 

* 2a.  Explain how the community and the current firefighters employed by the department are at risk without 
the positions requested in this application? (2500 characters) 

Currently, the fire station jointly funded by Gridley Fire (GFD) and Butte County Fire (BCFD) is staffed by three 
personnel daily. With GFD's numerous aid agreements, two engines from neighboring departments will typically 
arrive within 10 minutes, contributing to meeting NFPA 1720-Suburban guidelines. After that, the next due engines 
would arrive at an estimated 17, 20, and 23 minutes. Since all our neighboring departments only staff their career 
apparatus with two firefighters, a best case scenario is GFD's three firefighters will be paired with a maximum of four 
additional firefighters from neighboring departments within the first 10 minutes, for a total of seven. GFDs 11 
volunteers can reliably provide 2 additional personnel for most calls, typically leaving us one firefighter short of 
meeting the NFPA 1720-Suburban assembly guideline of 10 personnel in 10 minutes. With three firefighters on duty 
per day, we must wait until an additional apparatus from a neighboring department or a volunteer arrives at scene 
before making an interior attack on a working structure fire in order to comply with OSHAs 2 in/2 out ru► es. While 
water can be applied from the outside, fires are typically not fully extinguished until water is applied directly to the 
seat of the fire. The delay in interior operations contributes to fire spread, increasing both fire and water damage. 
Further, the longer a fire burns, the more prone a structure is to collapse, increasing the chance of a firefighter injury. 
This is evidenced by an incident that occurred in Richvale, a neighboring rural community, in 2005. A residential 
structure fire continued to grow while a two person engine company had to wait for the next arriving resource before 
making entry. The firefighters extinguished the fire and were performing overhaul when the structure unexpectedly 
collapsed, trapping three firefighters. While we were extremely lucky that no firefighters were severely injured or 
killed, this incident demonstrates the very real risk to firefighters associated with delayed extinguishment. 

* 2b.  How will that risk be reduced if awarded? (150o characters) 

By providing four firefighter minimum daily staffing, we will be able to ensure we meet OSHAs 2 in/2 out upon arrival 
at a working fire. This will allow the option to immediately make an aggressive interior fire attack if conditions allow, 
minimizing fire and water damage to the structure. We would no longer have to wait for a neighboring department or 
a GFD volunteer firefighter to arrive. In addition, by providing four firefighters, we can more consistently meet NFPA 
1720-Suburban assembly standards. With two engines from neighboring departments typically arriving within 10 
minutes and GFDs roster of 11 volunteer firefighters reliably producing two or more firefighters per call, we hope to 
routinely meet the NFPA recommended 10 personnel in 10 minutes. 

#3 -Financial Need 

* 3a. Provide an income versus expenses breakdown of the current annual budget as indicated in the 
Applicant Characteristics section of the application. (2soo characters) 

Gridley Fire (GFD) has an adopted annual budget of $763,473 for fiscal 2018/2019, which is 100% funded by the 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_n ~mber=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 18 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

city's General Fund. The fact that the city is able to offer full service career fire protection on such a small budget is a 
testament to the economies of scale and other fiscal benefits provided by the station sharing agreement with Butte 
County Fire noted elsewhere in this application. Fire services were 16% of the city's General Fund expenditures, 
with police comprising 54%, administration 12%, public works 9%, parks and recreation 6%, and development 3%. 
While the expense for police seems significantly higher than fire department, it must be noted that the cities of 
Gridley and Biggs have combined their police and animal control forces and much of this expenses is offset by 
reimbursements under this contract. General Fund revenues are from the following sources: property taxes 35%, 
sales taxes 27%, special police services (City of Biggs police and animal control resource sharing agreement noted 
elsewhere in this application) 18%, state in-lieu taxes 5%, franchise taxes 4%, and all other 11%. GFDs $763,473 
budget breaks down as follows: $ 2,644 Communications $ 65 Household $ 10,557 Insurance $ 17,068 Equipment 
Maintenance $ 81 Structure Maintenance $ 101 Memberships $ 1,219 Office $702,985 Personnel $ 393 Publications 
$ 96 Equipment Rental $ 247 Small Tools $ 9,316 Fuel $ 5,825 Special Expense $ 1,381 Transportation and Travel $ 
11,496 Utilities There are no funds available to be allocated for capital improvements such as station upgrades or 
apparatus replacement. 

* 3b.  Describe the department's budget shortfalls and inability to address financial needs without federal 
assistance. (2500 characters) 

While the recession of the late 2000s hit the entire country hard, recovery throughout Butte County, and in the City of 
Gridley specifically, has been slower than anticipated. After many years of fiscal challenges, the past three budget 
cycles are the first that the city has been able to maintain a positive General Fund balance after many years of 
deficits. General Fund revenues have decreased from approximately $3.5 million in FY15/16 to $3.1 million in FY 
17/18-a loss of over 10%. In order to balance the budget, the city has instituted furloughs, reduced operating costs, 
postponed capital improvements, offered an early retirement program, and other measures to reduce strain on the 
General Fund. The city provides electrical, potable water, and sewer services within the city limits. This service 
typically produces positive cash flow to support city services. Increased solar installations in the city have challenged 
electrical revenues in recent years. It will become an increasing challenge for the city to profitably run its electrical 
utility in the years to come as California law goes into effect in 2020 requiring solar panels on all new construction. 
Recently, Mary's Gone Crackers, a snack food company that had grown from small startup to a national brand from a 
warehouse in Gridley over the past 15 years, moved their operation to Reno, Nevada. Mary's Gone Crackers had 
been the city's major utility account. The loss of utility revenue compounds the loss of tax revenue and loss of jobs 
that were previously considered stable. As noted elsewhere in this application, the 153,000 acre Camp Fire 
devastated the northeastern portion of Butte County in November, 2018, destroying some 19,000 structures and 
killing 85 civilians-becoming the deadliest and most destructive wild land fire in California history. As some 30,000 
citizens evacuated many settled in with friends and family in Gridley. Also, FEMA has indicated intentions to set up 
evacuee housing in Gridley, bringing an additional 1,000 or more residents. With Gridley's motto being 'The small 
town that loves company', the new citizens will be welcomed with open arms. Eventually, the new residents will 
translate into increased city revenues, however, in the mean time, there are increased demands for services in the 
city, from police and road repair to schools and fire protection. 

* 3c.  What other actions has the department taken to obtain funding elsewhere (e.g., state assistance 
programs, other grant programs)? (250o characters) 

With the influx of evacuees from the Camp Fire in November, 2018, the deadliest and most destructive wild fire in 
California history that left some 30,000 Butte County residents homeless, there has been talk of a FEMA sponsored 
housing project proposed in Gridley. Part of those discussions has been a proposal for FEMA to provide some 
funding to offset the effects of the new residents. While the FEMA proposal has not been finalized, there are many 
competing priorities for any funds received, ranging from law enforcement concerns to infrastructure improvement 
needs to impacts to local schools. It has not been determined how much, if any, funds will be directed toward fire 
protection mitigations for the increased population. In addition, separate grant and other assistance proposals have 
been submitted to mitigate the impact to schools, police, public works, transportation, and other impacted program 
areas. Since the Camp Fire disaster occurred just over four months ago, Gridley is still in the relatively early stages 
of determining the long-term effects of our new residents, but is actively exploring all avenues to secure funding to 
increase services. 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 19 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

* 3d. Discuss how the critical functions of the department are affected without this funding. (250o characters) 

As noted elsewhere in this application, staffing at the fire station in Gridley has been reduced from a minimum of 4 
firefighters per day to a minimum of 3. Studies have shown that a team of 4 firefighters can perform a set of tasks 
30%faster than a team of 3. As such, it is a given that the plethora of tasks that must be completed in the initial 
minutes after arrival at a working structure fire will take longer to complete. Therefore, we have adjusted our strategy 
and tactics accordingly. With our current staffing model, we do not meet NFPA 1720 benchmarks-even with 
extensive resource sharing and boundary drop aid agreements with our neighbors. Further, we must wait for another 
apparatus or à GFD volunteer to arrive in order to meet OSHAs 2 in/2 out rule. As a result, our operations have had 
to change. Instead of being able to initiate a rapid, interior fire attack if needed, we must now be more conservative. 
This means initiating fire attack in a defensive manner from the outside of the structure, then progressing to an 
interior attack to accomplish full extinguishment once additional units arrive. This delays full extinguishment, 
increases property damage (both due to fire and additional water application), decreases likelihood of victim 
survivability, and increases potential for structural collapse injuring a firefighter. Since the station houses a Type 1 
engine, a 100 foot quint, a Type 3 wildland engine, and the water rescue pickup, trailer, and inflatable boats, having 4 
people at the station allowed the ability to cross staff apparatus as needed. In the event of a structure fire, for 
example, two personnel could cross staff the quint and the other two respond the Type 1 engine, bringing an entire 
complement of hose, ladders, and tools to the scene, including aerial capabilities. The ability to cross staff apparatus 
in this manner is ineffective with three firefighters and poses firefighter safety concerns. Having one firefighter 
respond alone in a second apparatus separates the company officer from the entire crew, fragmenting 
communication and creating potential accountability issues. A key benefit of bringing two apparatus is to increase 
the inventory of tools available to the first arriving firefighters. With only 3 personnel, splitting the crew to complete 
tasks using tools from each apparatus leaves one firefighter to act alone, which is unsafe. This limits the strategic 
options available to the first in company officer. 

~*Element #4 -Cost Benefit (10%): 

~ 

* Describe the benefits (e.g., quantifying the anticipated savings and/or efficiencies) the department and 
community will realize if awarded the positions requested in this application. (3500 characters) 

The additional staffing requested in this proposal will ensure that four firefighters are available every day in the City 
of Gridley. This will allow multiple tasks to be completed simultaneously at the fire scene, shortening the time 
between arrival at scene and application of water to the fire. The cannery fire noted elsewhere in this application is a 
great success story from Gridley Fire Department's (GFD) recent history that demonstrates the value of having four 
firefighters on duty per day, as proposed in this application. On December 30, 2015, a fire started in the 558,000 
square foot by 35 foot tall former Libbys peach cannery and warehouse building in an industrial area of the city. The 
four firefighters assigned to the Gridley station that day were able to simultaneously place multiple master streams, 
connect to a hydrant, position and extend a 35 foot extension ladder, and perform a scene size up 'walk around' 
before the arrival of the next in engine from a neighboring department. An aggressive, coordinated attack, including 
large attack lines, vertical ventilation utilizing a commercial trench cut, and elevated master streams were 
instrumental to limiting damage to just 120,000 square feet of the structure-less than'/a of the building. While losses 
totaled $1 million, firefighters saved the remaining $4 million in contents and structural value. The quick actions of 
the four firefighters arriving first at scene set up the rest of the incident to progress successfully, as the entire multi-
million dollar building could have easily been lost. Had there been fewer people on duty, the first arriving resources 
could not have completed as many tasks as quickly, which would have allowed the fire to spread unchecked. This 
would have certainly increased the amount of damage. In this instance, over 3/a  of the building was still usable after 
the fire was extinguished. This not only saved a good portion of the business' product, but also enabled the business 
to resume operations more quickly, helping to preserve the business' income and, in turn, a source of tax, water, 
sewer, and electric utility revenue for the city. While it is challenging to calculate the exact value of preserved tax 
and utility revenue for the city and the ancillary value of jobs that were saved in this instance, it is clear that the extra 
person on duty that day was a large factor in saving 3/a  of amulti-million dollar industrial warehouse. In property save 
alone, assuming one position costs roughly $200,000 per year, the return on investment that year was in excess of 5 
to 1. This 5 to 1 return does not account for any of the other calls for service in which having a fourth firefighter 
provided an improved outcome over the years. 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page ZO of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 1421 

ement #5 -Additional Information : If you have any additional information you would like to include about the 
apartment and/or this application in general, please provide below. (200o characters) 

Throughout its 130 year history, Gridley Fire (GFD) has always sought to provide an outstanding level of fire protection, 
superior customer service, and an exceptional level of community engagement at the most cost-effective rate for the 
taxpayers. Entering into an agreement with Butte County Fire (BCFD) to jointly operate the fire station in Gridley has 
enabled both GFD and BCFD to effectively increase the level of service to both jurisdictions while reducing operating 
posts. Not many cities with a population of 7,000 can provide fully staffed, career fire protection for $763,000 per year. 
Entering into boundary drop, automatic, and mutual aid agreements with every neighboring department further maximizes 
the number of resources available to mitigate large scale incidents, and has proven extremely effective over the years. 
Just one example of this is the cannery fire detailed elsewhere in this application, in which 3/a  of a 558,000 square foot 
~rarehouse and goods processing facility was saved, not only preserving the business, but also protecting tax and utility 
~evenue for the city. We are hopeful that, as many of the Camp Fire evacuees establish permanent residency, city 
~evenues will increase, providing a sustainable source of funding for years to come. In the meantime, the sudden 
population increase has increased demand for city services that were already strained before the fire. GFDs challenge is 
:o ensure our department continues to operate efficiently and effectively for both for our newest residents as well as for 
:hose who have called Gridley home for many generations. 

FEMA Form 080-0-4a 

Assurances and Certifications 

FEMA Form SF 424B 

You must read and sign these assurances. These documents contain the Federal requirements attached to all 
Federal grants including the right of the Federal government to review the grant activity. You should read over the 
documents to become aware of the requirements. The Assurances and Certifications must be read, signed, and 
submitted as a part of the application. 

Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required. 

O.M.B Control Number 4040-0007 

I 
Note: Certain of these assurances may not be applicable to your projector program. If you have any questions, please 
contact the awarding agency. Further, certain Federal awarding agencies may require applicants to certify to additional 
assurances. If such is the case, you will be notified. 

Assurances Non-Construction Programs 

I 

the duly authorized representative of the applicant I certify that the applicant: 

1.  Has the legal authority to apply for Federal assistance and the institutional, managerial and financial 
capability (including funds sufficient to pay the non-Federal share of project costs) to ensure proper 
planning, management and completion of the project described in this application. 

2.  Will give the awarding agency, the Comptroller General of the United States, and if appropriate, the 
State, through any authorized representative, access to and the right to examine all records, books, 
papers, or documents related to the award; and will establish a proper accounting system in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards or agency directives. 

3.  Will establish safeguards to prohibit employees from using their positions for a purpose that 

constitutes or presents the appearance of personal or organizational conflict of interest, or personal 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 21 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

gain. 

4.  Will initiate and complete the work within the applicable time frame after receipt of approval of the 

awarding agency. 

5.  Will comply with the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. Section 4728-4763) relating 
to prescribed standards for merit systems for programs funded under one of the nineteen statutes or 
regulations specified in Appendix A of OPM's Standards for a Merit System of Personnel 
Administration (5 C.F.R. 900, Subpart F). 

6.  Will comply with all Federal statutes relating to nondiscrimination. These include but are not limited to: 

(a) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (P.L. 88-352) which prohibits discrimination on the basis of 
race, color or national origin; (b) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, as amended (20 
U.S.C. Sections 1681-1683, and 1685-1686), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex; (c) 
Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. Section 794), which prohibits 
discrimination on the basis of handicaps; (d) the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended (42 
U.S.C. Sections 6101-6107), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of age; (e) the Drug Abuse 
Office and Treatment Act of 1972 (P. L. 92-255), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the 
basis of drug abuse; (f) the Comprehensive Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment and 
Rehabilitation Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-616), as amended, relating to nondiscrimination on the basis of 
alcohol abuse or alcoholism; (g) §§523 and 527 of the Public Health Service Act of 1912 (42 U.S.C. 
§§290 dd-3 and 290 ee-3), as amended, relating to confidentiality of alcohol and drug abuse patient 
records; (h) Title VIII of the Civil Rights Acts of 1968 (42 U.S.C. Section 3601 et seq.), as amended, 
relating to nondiscrimination in the sale, rental or financing of housing;  (i)  any other nondiscrimination 
provisions in the specific statutes) under which application for Federal assistance is being made; and 
Q) the requirements of any other nondiscrimination statutes) which may apply to the application. 

7.  Will comply, or has already complied, with the requirements of Title II and III of the Uniform Relocation 
Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (P.L. 91-646) which provide for fair and 
equitable treatment of persons displaced or whose property is acquired as a result of Federal or 
federally-assisted programs. These requirements apply to all interest in real property acquired for 
project purposes regardless of Federal participation in purchases. 

8.  Will comply, as applicable, with provisions of the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. §§1501-1508 and 7324-7328) 
which limit the political activities of employees whose principal employment activities are funded in 
whole or in part with Federal funds. 

9.  Will comply, as applicable, with the provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. §§276a to 276a-7), 

the Copeland Act (40 U.S.C. §276c and 18 U.S.C. §874), and the Contract Work Hours and Safety 
Standards Act (40 U.S.C. §§327-333), regarding labor standards for federally-assisted construction 
subagreements. 

10.  Will comply, if applicable, with flood insurance purchase requirements of Section 102(a) of the Flood 
Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (P.L. 93-234) which requires recipients in a special flood hazard area 
to participate in the program and to purchase flood insurance if the total cost of insurable construction 
and acquisition is $10,000 or more. 

11.  Will comply with environmental standards which may be prescribed pursuant to the following: (a) 

institution of environmental quality control measures under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969 (P.L. 91-190) and Executive Order  (EO)  11514; (b) notification of violating facilities pursuant to  
EO  11738; (c) protection of wetlands pursuant to  EO  11990; (d) evaluation of flood hazards in 
floodplains in accordance with  EO  11988; (e) assurance of project consistency with the approved 
State management program developed under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
§§1451 et seq.); (f) conformity of Federal actions to State (Clean Air) Implementation Plans under 
Section 176(c) of the Clean Air Act of 1955, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§7401 et seq.); (g) protection of 
underground sources of drinking water under the Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended (P.L. 
93-523); and, (h) protection of endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as 
amended (P.L. 93-205). 

12.  Will comply with the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act of 1968 (16 U.S.C. Section 1271 et seq.) related to 

protecting components or potential components of the national wild and scenic rivers system. 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 22 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

13.  Will assist the awarding agency in assuring compliance with Section 106 of the National Historic 

Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470),  EO  11593 (identification and protection of 
historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1 
et seq.). 

14.  Will comply with P.L. 93-348 regarding the protection of human subjects involved in research, 

development, and related activities supported by this award of assistance. 

15.  Will comply with the Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966 (P.L. 89-544, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 2131 

et seq.) pertaining to the care, handling, and treatment of warm blooded animals held for research, 
teaching, or other activities supported by this award of assistance. 

16.  Will comply with the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. Section 4801 et seq.) 
which prohibits the use of lead based paint in construction or rehabilitation of residence structures. 

17.  Will cause to be performed the required financial and compliance audits in accordance with the Single 

Audit Act Amendments of 1996 and OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, 
and Non-Profit Organizations." 

18.  Will comply with all applicable requirements of all other Federal laws, executive orders, regulations 

and policies governing this program. 

Signed by Spencer Mallinger on 03/20/2019 

Form 20-16C 

You must read and sign these assurances. 

Certifications Regarding Lobbying, Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters and Drug-Free 
Workplace Requirements. 
Note: Fields marked with an asterisk (*) are required. 

O.M.B Control Number 1660-0025 

Applicants should refer to the regulations cited below to determine the certification to which they are required to attest. 
Applicants should also review the instructions for certification included in the regulations before completing this form. 
Signature on this form provides for compliance with certification requirements under 44 CFR Part 18, "New Restrictions 
on Lobbying" and 44 CFR Part 17, "Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Non-procurement) and Government-
wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)." The certifications shall be treated as a material representation of 
act upon which reliance will be placed when the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) determines to award the 
covered transaction, grant, or cooperative agreement. 
1. Lobbying 
A. As required by the section 1352, Title 31 of the US Code, and implemented at 44 CFR Part 18 for persons (entering) 
into a grant or cooperative agreement over $100,000, as defined at 44 CFR Part 18, the applicant certifies that: 

(a) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid by or on behalf of the undersigned to any 
person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of 
Congress, an officer or employee of congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with 
the making of any Federal grant, the entering into of any cooperative agreement and extension, 
continuation, renewal amendment or modification of any Federal grant or cooperative agreement. 

(b) If any other funds than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for 

https://eservices.fema.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 23 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an 
officer or employee of congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal 
grant or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form LLL, 
"Disclosure of Lobbying Activities", in accordance with its instructions. 

(c) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents 
for all the sub awards at all tiers (including sub grants, contracts under grants and cooperative agreements 
and sub contract(s)) and that all sub recipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. 

~2. Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters (Direct Recipient) 
A. As required by Executive Order 12549, Debarment and Suspension, and implemented at 44 CFR Part 67, for 
prospective participants in primary covered transactions, as defined at 44 CFR Part 17, Section 17.510-A, the applicant 
certifies that it and its principals: 

(a) Are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, sentenced to a 
denial of Federal benefits by a State or Federal court, or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by 
any Federal department or agency. 

(b) Have not within athree-year period preceding this application been convicted of or had a civilian 
judgment rendered against them for commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, 
attempting to obtain or perform a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or contract under a public 
transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, 
bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property. 

(c) Are not presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a government entity (Federal, 
State, or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; 
and 

(d) Have not within athree-year period preceding this application had one or more public transactions 
(Federal, State, or local) terminated for cause or default; and 

B. Where the applicant is unable to certify to any of the statements in this certification, he or she shall attach an 
explanation to this application. (400o characters) 
I3.  Druq-Free Workplace (Grantees other than individuals) 

I 

,s required by the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, and implemented at 44 CFR Part 17, Subpart F, for grantees, as 
efined at 44 CFR part 17, Sections 17.615 and 17.620: 

(A) The applicant certifies that it will continue to provide adrug-free workplace by: 

(a) Publishing a statement notifying employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, 
dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in the grantee's 
workplace and specifying the actions that will be taken against employees for violation of such 
prohibition; 
(b) Establishing an on-going drug free awareness program to inform employees about: 

(1) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace; 
(2) The grantee's policy of maintaining adrug-free workplace; 
(3) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee assistance 
programs; and 
(4) The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse 
violations occurring in the workplace; 

(c) Making it a requirement that each employee to be engaged in the performance of the grant 
to be given a copy of the statement required by paragraph (a); 
(d) Notifying the employee in the statement requíred by paragraph (a) that, as a condition of 
employment under the grànt, the employee will: 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app  number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 24 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

(1) Abide by the terms of the statement; and 
(2) Notify the employee in writing of his or her conviction for a violation of a 
criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace no later than five calendar days 
after such conviction. 

(e) Notifying the agency, in writing within 10 calendar days after receiving notice under 
subparagraph (d)(2) from an employee or otherwise receiving actual notice of such 
conviction. Employers of convicted employees must provide notice, including position title, to 
the applicable awarding office. 
(f) Taking one of the following actions, against such an employee, within 30 calendar days of 
receiving notice under subparagraph (d)(2), with respect to any employee who is so 
convicted: 

(1) Taking appropriate personnel action against such an employee, up to and 
including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act 
of 1973, as amended; or 
(2) Requiring such employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse 
assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes by a Federal, 
State, or local health, law enforcement or other appropriate agency. 

(g) Making a good faith effort to continue to maintain a drug free workplace through 
implementation of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f). 

(B) The grantee may insert in the space provided below the sites) for the performance of work done in 
connection with the specific grant: 

Place of Performance 

Street 

City 

State 

Zip 

Action 

If your place of performance is different from the physical address provided by you in the Applicant Information, 
press Add Place of Performance button above to ensure that the correct place of performance has been 
specified. You can add multiple addresses by repeating this process multiple times. 

Section 17.630 of the regulations provide that a grantee that is a State may elect to make one certification in each 
Federal fiscal year. A copy of which should be included with each application for FEMA funding. States and State 
agencies may elect to use a Statewide certification. 

Signed by Spencer Mallinger on 03/20/2019 

FEMA Standard Form LLL 

Only complete if applying for a grant for more than $100,000 and have lobbying activities. See Form 20-16C for 
lobbying activities definition. 

Submit Application 

https://eservices.ferra.gov(FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 25 of 26 

Application Number: EMW-2018-FH-00405 

3/22/19, 14:21 

Please click on any of the following links to visit a particular section of your application. Once all areas of your 
application are complete, you may submit your application. 

Application Area 

Status 

Application 100% complete, Submitted 

Applicant's Acknowledgements 

Overview 

Contact Information 

Applicant Information 

Applicant Characteristics (I) 

Applicant Characteristics (II) 

Department Call Volume 

Request Details 

Budget 

Narrative Statement 

Assurances and Certifications 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

Complete 

PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS BEFORE YOU SUBMIT. 

o  YOU WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO EDIT THIS APPLICATION ONCE IT HAS BEEN SUBMITTED. If you 
are not yet ready to submit this application, save it, and log out until you feel that you have no more 
changes. 

o  When you submit this application, you, as an authorized representative of the organization applying 

for this grant, are certifying that the following statements are true: 

To the best of my knowledge and belief, all data submitted in this application are true and correct. 

This application has been duly authorized by the governing body of the applicant and the applicant 
will comply to the Assurances and Certifications if assistance is awarded. 

To sign your application, check the box below and enter your password in the space provided. To submit 
your application, click the Submit Application button below to officially submit your application to FEMA. 

Note: The primary contact will be responsible for signing and submitting the application. Fields marked 
with an asterisk (~) are required. 

I, Spencer Mallinger, am hereby providing my signature for this application as of 22-Mar-2019. 

https://eservices.ferra.gov/FemaFireGrant/firegrant/jsp/safer/application/print_app.jsp?print=true&app_number=EMW-2018-FH-00405 

Page 26 of 26 

 

 
 
Date: 
 
To: 
 
From:   
 
Subject: 

 

 

 

City Council Agenda Item #6 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Councilmembers 

Donna Decker, Planning Department 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
 
Closed 
 
Emergency 

Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-025:  A resolution approving Tentative 
Subdivision Map No. 1-19 to subdivide three parcels consisting of approximately 
4.7 acres into twenty-one (21) parcels consisting of one 0.25 acre parcel for a 
detention basin and twenty (20) parcels for a residential housing development 
located at the northeast corner of Peach Street and West Biggs Gridley Road in 
the Single Family Residential District (R-1)  and Residential, Low Density (RLD) 
General Plan land use designation.  (APN: 022-230-022, -024 & -025)  
Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-026:  A resolution authorizing the City 
Administrator to execute a Deferred Improvement Agreement to defer the 
construction of a portion of road and pedestrian improvements on the east side 
of West Biggs Gridley Road. 
Adopt Resolution Number 2019-R-027:  A resolution authorizing the City 
Administrator to execute a Landscaping, Lighting, Utility and West Biggs Gridley 
Road Assessment District to provide for the maintenance of the subdivision 
improvements and deferred road improvement costs. 

 

Recommendation 
Staff respectfully requests the City Council determine the project is Categorically Exempt per 
the California Environmental Quality Act, Section 15332 (a-e), Class 32, Infill Development 
Projects and adopt Resolution Numbers 2019-R-025, 2019-R-026, and 2019-R-027 by reading of 
title only. 
 
Summary 
On July 10, 2019, the Planning Commission considered the request to develop the 
three parcels into twenty-one parcels to create a residential subdivision.  One of the 
parcels would be reserved for a storm water detention basin.   
 
Mr. Patrick Coghlan, 852 Idaho Street, provided public testimony in opposition to the 
condition of approval allowing a deferment of the road improvements on West Biggs 
Gridley Road from the intersection of Peach and West Biggs Gridley Road to the north 
property line.  He stated that the City had required Heron Landing to put all of the 
improvements in.  He noted that if they are not put in now and deferred to a later date, 
there was no guarantee that they would be put in at all.  He also noted that it would 
create a dangerous situation for pedestrians in the subdivision and children who may 
walk to school who would not have a sidewalk as a safe refuge out of traffic.  

 

Additionally, he felt there should be fencing placed around the detention basin to keep 
people out of the facility. With regard to traffic, he questioned the reason why a 
deceleration lane was not being provided into the subdivision. Refer to Exhibit G.  
 
The Planning Commission supported the project with the following amendments to the 
Conditions of Approval: 
 

15. Dedicate the east one-half of West Biggs-Gridley Road and enter into an 
improvement deferment agreement attached to all properties in the subdivision with 
the exception of lot 21, to pay the costs at a future date when West Biggs-Gridley Road 
will be designed and constructed.   As construct all of the road and utility improvements 
as required consisting of curb, gutter, sidewalk, pole relocation, and landscaping and 
irrigation in accordance with the City of Gridley Public Works standards.  

26. If a fence is required around the detention basin, it shall be an ornamental fence 

reviewed and approved by the Planning Department.  

 
The Planning Commission directed staff to work with the applicant to develop an Engineer’s 
estimate of the costs that would be deferred. 
 
The applicant requests the City Council allow the improvements be constructed on West Biggs 
Gridley Road at a later date that would coincide with a design connecting the subdivision to 
Heron Landing.  An Engineer’s Estimate was provided the Planning Department calculates the 
cost of the improvements to be approximately $357,420 (Exhibit C).  The applicant proposes 
the City allow the cost to be distributed to each of the twenty parcels.  The cost per each of the 
twenty parcels would be approximately $17,871.  This could be an assessed cost and paid by 
homeowners over a time period acceptable to the City until such time the City and County work 
together to reconstruct West Biggs Gridley Road with all improvements.   
 
On September 16, 2019 City Council received a staff report and considered the project along 
with the request to construct the improvements on West Biggs Gridley Road at the same time 
connection to Heron Landing could be done.  Staff provided additional information related to 
the instrument that would be used for payment as a type of reimbursement program from the 
lots to the City for construction.  Staff did not believe the construction would be much behind 
the other construction.   
 
Mr. Patrick Coghlan, 852 Idaho Street, spoke to the issues that were outlined in his letter as 
presented to the Planning Commission emphasizing that a delay in the construction of the 
improvements would be detrimental to the community and a safety issue.   
 
Ms. Barbara Hageman, 808 Idaho Street, also provided testimony expressing concerns related 
to additional traffic on Idaho Street and the safety of children walking.  
 
The project will have improvements constructed; the timing of the construction is being 
requested to possibly be delayed.  The City Council is requested to authorize the City 

 

Page 2 of 8 

Administrator to coordinate the agreements, funding, and construction of the improvements 
on West Biggs Gridley Road.  
 
Discussion 
The applicant is proposing a 21-parcel single-family residential subdivision on three 
parcels totaling ±4.7 acres.  The proposed subdivision was initially proposed and 
approved in 1993 and 2005; both maps expired.   The applicant is submitting a similar 
proposal as previously approved with slight differences in lot sizes, the connection to 
Bridgeford Avenue for future growth to the north.   
 
Background 
The subject site is located at the east side of West Biggs Gridley Road, north of Peach 
and Ohio Streets and south of a proposed extension of Bridgeford Avenue. The site is 
currently vacant with existing vegetation of shrubs and trees.  The tentative subdivision 
map will create 20 new single-family lots ranging in size from 5, 050 to 6,565 square 
feet and one lot reserved for a storm water detention basin 11,200 square feet.  
 
Land Use 
The project site is zoned R-1, Single Family Residential District and has a General Plan land use 
designation of Residential, Low Density.  The single-family residential district has four (4) 
designations: 

1.  R-1A  Parcels sized from 1,700 – 3,500 square feet 
2.  R-1B  Parcels sized from 3,501 – 5,999 square feet 
3.  R-1C  Parcels sized from 6,000 – 7,499 square feet 
4.  R-1 

Parcels sized from 7,500 and greater 

 
The proposed development will have seventeen (17) R-1B and three (3) R-1C parcels. One 
parcel is reserved for the detention basin.  This proposed layout has a gross density of 
approximately 4.25 du/acre.   The R-1 designation allows 4 du/ac and this proposal meets the 
intent of the zoning density.  
 
The  development  of  the  three  parcels  into  21  meets  the  General  Plan  land  use 
designation and the programs.  Additionally, the Housing Element of the General Plan 
supports  smaller  lot  subdivisions  and  infill  development  to  help  meet  the  housing 
requirement for the City of Gridley.  The Housing Element Policy HP-2.4 also supports 
this development:  

“The  City  will  encourage  infill  development  in  meeting  the  housing  needs 
required by expanding populations.”  

 
Delayed Improvements 
Staff recommended condition number 15 to allow the delay in the construction  of road 
improvements, sidewalks, irrigation and landscaping on West Biggs Gridley Road because the 
construction of such improvements may hamper future road design to have positive drainage 
from the subdivision north to Heron Landing.   The condition would read: 
1.  “Dedicate the east one-half of West Biggs-Gridley Road and enter into an agreement 

 

Page 3 of 8 

attached to all properties in the subdivision with the exception of lot 21, to pay the costs 
of the improvements for the design, construction, and reimbursement thereof.”    

 
In order to receive reimbursement for the improvements for West Biggs Gridley Road, an 
assessment district would be formed determining a limited time for repayment by the 20 lots 
would be established.  A second assessment that would be ongoing would be developed for 
street lighting, the sewer lift station, and the storm drainage detention basin 
 
The conditions of approval will be modified upon decision by the City Council.   
 
Public Notice 
A notice was posted in the Gridley Herald 10 days in advance of the City Council meeting, and 
notices were mailed to all property owners within 300 feet of the project boundary, posted at 
City Hall, made available at the Administration public counter, and placed on the City website 
for review.  At the time this report was prepared no comments had been received.  
 
Environmental Review 
Staff has determined the project to be categorically exempt in accordance with Section 
15332 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA):  
a) 

The project is consistent with the applicable General Plan designation and all 
applicable general plan policies as well as with applicable zoning designation    
regulations. 
The proposed development occurs within city limits on a project site of no more 
than 5 acres substantially surrounded by urban  uses. 
The project has no value as habitat for endangered, rare or threatened species. 

c) 
d)  Approval of the project would not result in any significant effects relating to 

traffic, noise, air quality, or water quality. 
The site can be adequately served by all required utilities and public services. 

e) 
 
Financial Impact 
There are no direct or indirect costs to the City excepting the management of the assessment 
district formed. 
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
This recommendation is consistent with the ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent 
regarding all financial matters.  
 
Attachments 

b) 

•  Exhibit A  
•  Exhibit B 
•  Exhibit C 
•  Exhibit D 
•  Exhibit E 
•  Exhibit F 
•  Exhibit G 

Conditions of Approval 
TSM 1-19 Map 
Engineer’s Estimate 
Resolution No. 2019-R-025 
Resolution No. 2019-R-026 
Resolution No. 2019-R-027 
Letter to Planning Commission from Patrick Coghlan dated July 10, 2019 

 

Page 4 of 8 

Exhibit A 

Conditions of Approval 

TSM 1-19 

 
1.  The applicant/property owner shall file a Declaration of Acceptance of the Conditions of 
Approval within 30 days of City Council approval for the Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19. 

 
2.  The Tentative Map 1-19 shall expire after a five (5) year period.  No further extensions by 

the City are allowed under the Subdivision Map Act; unless determined by the State of 
California special legislation to provide automatic extensions for the period specified at the 
time.  

 
3.  No further extension of this Tentative Subdivision Map shall be allowed, unless it is 

extended by California State Legislation.   A new application to develop the site would be 
required and all current conditions would need to be met at that time.  

 
4.  Use of the 4.7-acre project site is subject to all zoning regulations described in Gridley 
Municipal Code as applicable to "R-1 Single Family" residential zoning districts and all 
applicable requirements of the Gridley Municipal Code. 

 
5.  Physical development of the site shall conform to the design approved for Tentative 

Subdivision Map No. 1-19 and to all of the conditions of approval of that Tentative 
Subdivision Map. 

 
6.  The project shall be required to pay all applicable impact fees for the development of the 

project. 

 
7.  Minor changes may be approved by the Planning Director upon receipt of a 

substantiated request by the applicant, or their respected designee. Prior to such 
approval, verification shall be made by each Department that the modification is 
consistent with the approved application.   Changes deemed to be major or significant in 
nature shall require a formal application for amendment. 

 

 
8.  In the event of the discovery or recognition of prehistoric or historic resources in the area 
subject to development activity, there shall be no further excavation or disturbance of the 
site or any nearby area reasonably suspected to overlie similar resources and a 
professional archaeologist shall be consulted. Further, if human remains are discovered, 
the coroner of the county in which the remains are discovered must be contacted to 
determine that no investigation of the cause of death is required. If the County Coroner 
determines the remains to be Native American, the coroner shall contact the Native 
American Heritage Commission within 24 hours. 

 
  Upon completion of the site examination, the archeologist shall submit a report to the 

City describing the significance of the finds and make recommendations as to its  
disposition. If human remains are unearthed during construction, the provisions of 

Page 5 of 8 

 

 

 

California Health and Safety Code Section 7050.5 shall apply. Under this section, no 
further disturbance of the remains shall occur until the County Coroner has made the 
necessary findings as to origin and disposition, pursuant to California Public Resources 
Code Section 5097.98. Mitigation measures, as recommended by the archaeologist and 
approved by the City, shall be implemented prior to recommencement of construction 
activity within the 50-foot perimeter. 

 

 
9.  Prior to any site work, the project applicant shall submit a geotechnical report to the 

City, prepared by a certified engineering geologist. The project applicant shall 
incorporate any recommended measures into the final site plan. 

 
10. Construction of the project shall comply with the requirements of the National 

Pollution Discharge Elimination (NPDES) Permit and obtain a WDID from the State of 
California in conformance with the General Construction Storm Water Permit; Storm  
Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared prior to construction 
activities.   

 
11. Upon commencement of grading and construction activities, the applicant shall 

implement measures to offset particulate matter and emissions from construction 
equipment as specified by Butte County Air Quality Management District. 

 
12. Prior to recordation of a Final Map, the applicant shall submit for review and approval 

improvement plans that shall include, not limited to, details related to  above and 
underground infrastructure; sanitary sewer lift station, oversized for future development, 
piping and service laterals, meters, drop inlets, manholes, curb, gutter, and sidewalk, 
roadway, pavement markings, lighting, hydrants, street signs,  electrical, transformer 
pedestals, and any and all components as required by the City of Gridley, the City Engineer, 
the Utility Supervisor, and Public Works Manager.  Plans shall meet all required state and 
local ordinances, regulations, and Public Works Development Standards.  Omissions on the 
plans does not constitute approval for the omission.  Plans shall be reviewed and approved 
by the City Engineer and the Gridley Municipal Services Division. 

 

 

 

13. Prior to recordation of the final map, the applicant shall coordinate with the Butte 

County Assessor’s Office and Tax Collector to segregate any assessments against the 
properties and pay any delinquent, current, and future taxes and/or assessments 
against the properties as required. 

14. Dedicate the east one-half of West Biggs-Gridley Road and enter into an improvement 
deferment agreement attached to all properties in the subdivision with the exception 
of lot 21, to pay the costs of the improvements at a future date when West Biggs-
Gridley Road will be designed and constructed.    

15. Dedicate and improve the north half of Peach Street including vertical curb and gutter, 

sidewalk and street construction. Improvements of the right-of-way shall be to the 
satisfaction of the City Engineer. 

 

Page 6 of 8 

 

 

 

16. Dedicate and improve the 60--foot wide local residential street right-of-way for the interior 

subdivision streets to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. 

17. Dedicate a 10-foot public services easement adjacent to all public right-of-way frontages. 
 
18. Prior to approval of a Final Map all of the following requirements shall be completed: 

19. A registered engineer shall prepare and submit the following information to Gridley 

Department of Public Works for review and approval: 
 
a)  Calculations identifying the estimated rate of peak stormwater runoff from the 
cross area of the undivided site and abutting streets - as they exist at the time of 
approval of the tentative subdivision map- during currently adopted design storm event. 
The calculations shall be prepared in a manner consistent with the Gridley Public Works 
Construction Standards, and with standard engineering practice. 

b)  Construction details, plans and profiles, typical sections, specifications, and 

maintenance plans for any proposed stormwater detention facilities to be constructed 
to serve the parcels created by this subdivision. 

c)  An assessment against the development and individual parcels shall be established to 
fund the on-going maintenance costs associated with approved stormwater detention 
facilities, lighting, landscape, cmu block wall as noted in Item 24, and drainage 
components as determined by the City Engineer. 

d)  Dedication of the area for the detention facilities shall be made to the City of Gridley as 

a condition of recordation of the Final Map. 

e)  The design of surface detention facilities shall minimize use of the facility by 

mosquitoes· for breeding by incorporating some or all of the features recommended by 
the Butte County Mosquito and Vector Control District. 

 

 

 

 

 

f)  All drainage improvements shall be constructed in conformance with the Gridley Public 
Works Construction Standards, the City of Gridley Master Drainage Plan, and the details 
shown on approved construction plans. The developer shall have a registered engineer 
prepare and submit construction details, plans and profiles, typical sections, 
specifications, and cost estimates to the Department of Public Works for review and 
approval prior to the recordation of the Final Map. 
 

20. Telephone, cable television, and gas service shall be provided to all parcels in accordance 

with the Gridley Public Works Construction Standards, the Gridley Municipal Code, and 
the requirements of the agencies providing these services. 
 

21. If any existing utilities must be relocated as a result of this subdivision, the agencies that 

 

Page 7 of 8 

own the facilities may require the developer to pay the cost of such relocations. 

 

 

 

22. The lots shall be graded in conformance with the Gridley Public Works Construction 
Standards and the Gridley Municipal Code. The developer shall submit grading details, 
plans and specifications prepared by a registered engineer to the Department of Public 
Works for review and approval prior to the start of any work. 
 

23. The Applicant shall hold harmless the City, its Council Members, its City Council, 

officers, agents, employees, and representatives from liability for any award, damages, 
costs and fees incurred by the City and/or awarded to the plaintiff in an action challenging 
the validity of this tentative subdivision map or any environmental or other 
documentation related to approval of this tentative subdivision map. 
 

24. In order to mitigate noise impacts from West Biggs Gridley Road on residential 

development, the applicant shall erect a 6'-high solid cmu split face capped sound wall 
adjacent to West Biggs Gridley Road prior to the acceptance of the improvements for 
the project.  Landscaping and irrigation shall be constructed on the west face of the 
wall to the satisfaction of the Planning Director.  

25. Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any lot within the subdivision, parcel 21 
shall be landscaped to visually enhance the detention basin. A landscape and irrigation 
plan for this area shall be submitted and approved by the Planning Director prior final 
map approval.  The applicant shall provide a concrete picnic table and benches.   

26. If a fence is required around the detention basin, it shall be an ornamental fence reviewed 

and approved by the Planning Department.  

 
 

 
 

Page 8 of 8 

 

 

GENESIS ENGINEERING

960 McCourtney Rd. Ste. C

Grass Valley, CA 95946
Phone:       (530) 742-1300

email:  sean@genesisengineering.us

SITE WORK
ITEM
Site Clear & Grub
Excavate Roadway
Erosion Control

SANITARY SEWER
ITEM

STORM DRAIN
ITEM
Drainage Inlets with grates
Junction Drainage Inlets
Storm drain manhole
12" dia main

WATER
ITEM
8" Dia. Waterline-Valves included
Fire Hydrant with Valve and Assembly
Irrigation controller
Backflow Preventer
Single Water Service

ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE

8/29/2019

PROJECT:

West Biggs-Gridley Road
(Eastside of Road only)
Westside of Hilbers Subdivision
North of Peach to Justeson
Offsite Improvements

QUANTITY

UNIT

1
500
1

LS
CY
LS

UNIT PRICE
            
5,000
                 
10
            
5,000
SUBTOTAL

COST

$          
$          
$          
$        

5,000
5,000
5,000
15,000

QUANTITY

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

COST

QUANTITY

UNIT

2
1
1
550

QUANTITY

UNIT

0
1
1
1

SUBTOTAL

$                  
-

EA
EA
LS
LF

LF
EA
EA
EA
EA

UNIT PRICE
            
4,000
            
5,000
5,000
            
                 
40
                    
-
SUBTOTAL

COST

$          
8,000
$          
5,000
$          
5,000
$        
22,000
$                  
-
40,000
$        

UNIT PRICE
                    
-
6,000
            
            
2,000
            
2,000
            
2,000
SUBTOTAL

COST

$                  
-
-
$                  
$          
2,000
$          
2,000
$          
2,000
6,000
$          

Page 1 of 2

ONSITE IMPROVEMENTS CONTINUED

CONCRETE
ITEM
Rolled Curb & Gutter (Driveways Included)
Barrier Curb & Gutter 
4' Sidewalk
Curb Ramp

QUANTITY

UNIT

0
580
580
0

LF
LF
LF
EA

UNIT PRICE
                 
20
                 
20
                 
20
            
2,000
SUBTOTAL

COST

$                  
-
$        
11,600
$        
11,600
$                  
-
23,200
$        

PAVING, ETC.
ITEM
Aggregate Base
Asphaltic Concrete
Monument Well
Street Signs
Stop Bars, Logo & Signs
Street Lights
Relocate Power Pole
Landscape

QUANTITY
1,600
340
2
1
1
2
1
8,000

** Street lights assumed to be added to existing poles

Quantities are based on preliminary layout.
Plans to be prepared to determine required work
prior to final determination of required costs.
Final costs to be prepared by licensed contractor.

UNIT

TONS
TONS
EA
EA
EA
EA
EA
SF

UNIT PRICE
                 
25
                 
95
            
2,500
500
               
            
2,000
            
5,000
            
5,000
10
                 
SUBTOTAL

TOTAL
15% CONTINGENCY
SUBTOTAL

COST

$        
$        
$          
$             
$          
$        
$          
$        
$      

40,000
32,300
5,000
500
2,000
10,000
5,000
80,000
174,800

$      
$        
$      

259,000
38,850
297,850

PLANS/PROCESSING (20%)

$        

59,570

**GRAND TOTAL

$      

357,420

**NOTE: Genesis Engineering assumes no responsibility
              for any discrepancies between the estimated cost
              and the final cost of construction.

Page 2 of 2

RESOLUTION NO.  
2019-R-025 

 

A RESOLUTION OF THE GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL APPROVING TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION MAP NO. 01-19 
TO SUBDIVIDE THREE PARCELS CONSISTING OF APPROXIMATELY 4.7 ACRES INTO TWENTY-ONE (21) 
PARCELS CONSISTING OF ONE 0.25 ACRE PARCEL FOR A DETENTION BASIN AND TWENTY (20) PARCELS 

FOR A RESIDENTIAL HOUSING DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF PEACH 
STREET AND WEST BIGGS GRIDLEY ROAD IN THE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)  AND 

RESIDENTIAL, LOW DENSITY (RLD) GENERAL PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATION.  

 (APN: 022-230-022, -024 & -025) 

 

WHEREAS, the City of Gridley has received an application to consider a Tentative 

Subdivision Map request for one parcel totaling approximately 4.7 acres in order to create a total 
of twenty-one lots for future single-family residential use on property located generally east of 
West Biggs Gridley Road and north of Peach Street in the manner illustrated on a tentative parcel 
map received by the City (Exhibit "A" attached); and, 

 
WHEREAS, the subject property consists of three parcels designated as Assessor's Parcel 

Number 022-230-022, -024 & -025 and the proposed Tentative Subdivision Map has been 
assigned the file number Tentative Subdivision Map No. 01-19 (TSM 01-19); and, 

 
 WHEREAS, the existing General Plan designation is Residential, Low Density on the 

Gridley Land Use Map; and, 

Residential District; and, 

 
WHEREAS, the existing zoning designation for the subject parcel is R-1 Single Family 

 
WHEREAS, the City Council finds that Tentative Subdivision Map No. 01-19, including the 

proposed use and improvements to the property, is consistent with Gridley's General Plan 
including the policies contained therein as well as the land use diagram, and also finds that 
based on the conditions of approval, the site is physically suitable for development as 
proposed; and, 

 
WHEREAS, the City Council considered at a noticed public hearing on 

September 16, 2019, the comments and concerns of property owners who are 
potentially affected by approval of Tentative Subdivision Map No. 1-19, and also 
considered City staff’s report regarding the proposed tentative map design and 
required public improvements; and, 

 
WHEREAS, the City Council determined that the described tentative map and its design and 
improvements are consistent with Gridley's General Plan and zoning ordinance policies regarding 
the use and division of land; and, 

 
WHEREAS, the City Council, having further considered the project and determined 

the project to be categorically exempt in accordance with Section 15332 of the California 
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA):  

The project is consistent with the applicable General Plan designation and all 

a) 
applicable general plan policies as well as with applicable zoning designation    
regulations. 

The proposed development occurs within city limits on a project site of no 

b) 
more than 5 acres substantially surrounded by urban  uses. 
c) 
d) 
traffic, noise, air quality, or water quality. 
e) 

 

The project has no value as habitat for endangered, rare or threatened species. 
Approval of the project would not result in any significant effects relating to 

The site can be adequately served by all required utilities and public services. 

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that this tentative subdivision map complies with all 
State and City regulations governing the division of land, and that division and development of 
the property in the manner set forth on the tentative parcel map as shown on Exhibit A will not 
unreasonably interfere with the free and complete use of existing public and/or public utility 
easements or rights-of-way. 

 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY, AS 

FOLLOWS: 
SECTION 1: FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF THE TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION MAP 
 
1.  The proposed project is consistent with the City of Gridley General Plan Land Use Element.  
2.  The site is physically suitable for the type of development proposed. The project site is flat 
with slopes less than two percent. The project site within the Gridley urban limits and is not 
within a flood plain. There is adequate road access to the property. All necessary public 
utilities and services necessary for development are available to the site. 

3.  The site is physically suited for the density of development. The R-1 zone district allows for the 

development of single-family residential dwelling units on lots from:  

•  R-1A 
•  R-1B 
•  R-1C 
•  R-1 

Parcels sized from 1,700 – 3,500 square feet 
Parcels sized from 3,501 – 5,999 square feet 
Parcels sized from 6,000 – 7,499 square feet 
Parcels sized from 7,500 and greater 

 

 

The proposed development will have seventeen (17) R-1B and three (3) R-1C parcels. One parcel is 
reserved for the detention basin.  This proposed layout has a gross density of approximately 4.25 
du/acre.   The R-1 designation allows 4 du/ac and this proposal meets the intent of the zoning 
density.  

4.  The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are not likely to cause serious 
public health problems. As conditioned, the project will provide adequate sanitary sewer, a 
public water supply, storm drainage facilities, and Standard subdivision road improvements 
which will include fire hydrants, streetlights and roadways designed for residential traffic. 

5.   The Tentative Subdivision Map conforms to the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act and to the 

provisions of Gridley Municipal Code Title 16- Subdivisions. 

6.  The tentative subdivision map complies with the required form and content of tentative 
subdivision maps, as set forth by the City and based upon the provisions of Title 16 of the 
Gridley Municipal Code. 

7.  The tentative parcel map is consistent with good planning and engineering practice. The City 
Engineer has reviewed the tentative subdivision map, and has attached terms and conditions 
hereby incorporated within the Conditions of Approval.  

8.  The project will have a de minimis effect on fish and wildlife (Fish and Game Code Section 
711.4). The project is located in an area designated on the City of Gridley General Plan as 
being suitable for residential development. 
 

SECTION 2:  THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY 
1)  Determines the project to be categorically exempt in accordance with Section 15332 of the 

California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA; and,   

2)  Approves Tentative Subdivision Map 01-19 as described subject to the Conditions of 

Approval as follows: 
1.  The applicant/property owner shall file a Declaration of Acceptance of the Conditions of 
Approval within 30 days of City Council approval for the Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19. 

2.  The Tentative Map 1-19 shall expire after a five (5) year period.  No further extensions by the 
City are allowed under the Subdivision Map Act; unless determined by the State of California 
special legislation to provide automatic extensions for the period specified at the time.  

3.  No further extension of this Tentative Subdivision Map shall be allowed, unless it is extended by 

California State Legislation.   A new application to develop the site would be required and all 
current conditions would need to be met at that time.  

4.  Use of the 4.7-acre project site is subject to all zoning regulations described in Gridley 
Municipal Code as applicable to "R-1 Single Family" residential zoning districts and all 
applicable requirements of the Gridley Municipal Code. 

5.  Physical development of the site shall conform to the design approved for Tentative 

Subdivision Map No. 1-19 and to all of the conditions of approval of that Tentative 
Subdivision Map. 

6.  The project shall be required to pay all applicable impact fees for the development of the 

project. 

7.   Minor changes may be approved by the Planning Director upon receipt of a substantiated 
request by the applicant, or their respected designee. Prior to such approval, verification 
shall be made by each Department that the modification is consistent with the approved 
application.   Changes deemed to be major or significant in nature shall require a formal 
application for amendment. 

8.    In the event of the discovery or recognition of prehistoric or historic resources in the area 

subject to development activity, there shall be no further excavation or disturbance of the site 
or any nearby area reasonably suspected to overlie similar resources and a professional 
archaeologist shall be consulted. Further, if human remains are discovered, the coroner of 
the county in which the remains are discovered must be contacted to determine that no 
investigation of the cause of death is required. If the County Coroner determines the remains 
to be Native American, the coroner shall contact the Native American heritage Commission 
within 24 hours. 
  Upon completion of the site examination, the archeologist shall submit a report to the City 
describing the significance of the finds and make recommendations as to its  

    disposition. If human remains are unearthed during construction, the provisions of 

California Health and Safety Code Section 7050.5 shall apply. Under this section, no further 
disturbance of the remains shall occur until the County Coroner has made the necessary 
findings as to origin and disposition, pursuant to California Public Resources Code Section 
5097.98. Mitigation measures, as recommended by the archaeologist and approved by the 
City, shall be implemented prior to recommencement of construction activity within the 50-
foot perimeter. 

9.  Prior to any site work, the project applicant shall submit a geotechnical report to the City, 
prepared by a certified engineering geologist. The project applicant shall incorporate any 
recommended measures into the final site plan. 

10. Construction of the project shall comply with the requirements of the National Pollution 
Discharge Elimination (NPDES) Permit and obtain a WDID from the State of California in 
conformance with the General Construction Storm Water Permit; Storm Water Pollution 

Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared prior to construction activities.   

11. Upon commencement of grading and construction activities, the applicant shall implement 

measures to offset particulate matter and emissions from construction equipment as 
specified by Butte County Air Quality Management District. 

12. Prior to recordation of a Final Map, the applicant shall submit for review and approval 

improvement plans that shall include, not limited to, details related to  above and underground 
infrastructure; sanitary sewer lift station, oversized for future development, piping and service 
laterals, meters, drop inlets, manholes, curb, gutter, and sidewalk, roadway, pavement 
markings, lighting, hydrants, street signs,  electrical, transformer pedestals, and any and all 
components as required by the City of Gridley, the City Engineer, the Utility Supervisor, and 
Public Works Manager.  Plans shall meet all required state and local ordinances, regulations, and 
Public Works Development Standards.  Omissions on the plans does not constitute approval for 
the omission.  Plans shall be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and the Gridley 
Municipal Services Division. 

13. Prior to recordation of the final map, the applicant shall coordinate with the Butte County 

Assessor’s Office and Tax Collector to segregate any assessments against the properties and 
pay any delinquent, current, and future taxes and/or assessments against the properties as 
required. 

14. Dedicate the east one-half of West Biggs-Gridley Road and enter into an improvement 

deferment agreement attached to all properties in the subdivision with the exception of lot 
21, to pay the costs of the improvements at a future date when West Biggs-Gridley Road 
will be designed and constructed.    

15. Dedicate and improve the north half of Peach Street including vertical curb and gutter, 

sidewalk and street construction. Improvements of the right-of-way shall be to the 
satisfaction of the City Engineer. 

16. Dedicate and improve the 60--foot wide local residential street right-of-way for the interior 

subdivision streets to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. 

17. Dedicate a 10-foot public services easement adjacent to all public right-of-way frontages. 
18. Prior to approval of a Final Map all of the following requirements shall be completed: 
19. A registered engineer shall prepare and submit the following information to Gridley 

Department of Public Works for review and approval: 

 

a.  Calculations identifying the estimated rate of peak stormwater runoff from the 
  cross area of the undivided site and abutting streets - as they exist at the time of 
approval of the tentative subdivision map- during currently adopted design storm 
event. The calculations shall be prepared in a manner consistent with the Gridley 
Public Works Construction Standards, and with standard engineering practice. 

b.  Construction details, plans and profiles, typical sections, specifications, and 
maintenance plans for any proposed stormwater detention facilities to be 
constructed to serve the parcels created by this subdivision. 

c.  An assessment against the development and individual parcels shall be established 

to fund the on-going maintenance costs associated with approved stormwater 
detention facilities, lighting, landscape, concrete masonry split face block wall as 
noted in Item 24, and drainage components as determined by the City Engineer. 

d.  Dedication of the area for the detention facilities shall be made to the City of Gridley 

as a condition of recordation of the Final Map. 

e.  The design of surface detention facilities shall minimize use of the facility by 

mosquitoes· for breeding by incorporating some or all of the features 
recommended by the Butte County Mosquito and Vector Control District. 

f.  All drainage improvements shall be constructed in conformance with the Gridley Public 

Works Construction Standards, the City of Gridley Master Drainage Plan, and the 
details shown on approved construction plans. The developer shall have a registered 
engineer prepare and submit construction details, plans and profiles, typical 
sections, specifications, and cost estimates to the Department of Public Works for 
review and approval prior to the recordation of the Final Map. 

20. Telephone, cable television, and gas service shall be provided to all parcels in accordance with 

the Gridley Public Works Construction Standards, the Gridley Municipal Code, and the 
requirements of the agencies providing these services. 

21. If any existing utilities must be relocated as a result of this subdivision, the agencies that own 

the facilities may require the developer to pay the cost of such relocations. 

22. The lots shall be graded in conformance with the Gridley Public Works Construction 

Standards and the Gridley Municipal Code. The developer shall submit grading details, plans 
and specifications prepared by a registered engineer to the Department of Public Works for 
review and approval prior to the start of any work. 

23. The Applicant shall hold harmless the City, its Council Members, its City Council, officers, 
agents, employees, and representatives from liability for any award, damages, costs and 
fees incurred by the City and/or awarded to the plaintiff in an action challenging the validity of 
this tentative subdivision map or any environmental or other documentation related to 
approval of this tentative subdivision map. 

24. In order to mitigate noise impacts from West Biggs Gridley Road on residential 

development, the applicant shall erect a 6'-high solid concrete masonry split face capped sound 
wall adjacent to West Biggs Gridley Road prior to the acceptance of the improvements for 
the project.  Landscaping and irrigation shall be constructed on the west face of the wall to 
the satisfaction of the Planning Director.  

25. Prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any lot within the subdivision, parcel 21 shall 

be landscaped to visually enhance the detention basin. A landscape and irrigation plan for 
this area shall be submitted and approved by the Planning Director prior final map 
approval.  The applicant shall provide a concrete picnic table and benches.  Fencing shall be 
provided if required by the Planning Department.   
********* 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced, passed and adopted by the City 
Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019, by the following 
vote: 
 

AYES: 

 

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

NOES:                  COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ABSENT:    
 
ABSTAIN:  

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

COUNCIL MEMBERS              

ATTEST:  

 

 

 

__________________________  
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 
 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

__________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

EXHIBIT A 
2019-R-025 

 

::;: 

 
 
RESOLUTION NO.  
2019-R-026 
 

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT FOR 

REIMBURSEMENT TO THE CITY OF GRIDLEY FOR OFFSITE SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS BY THE TWENTY 
PARCELS LOCATED AT WEST BIGGS GRIDLEY ROAD FOR TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION MAP 1-19; RESOLUTION 

NO. 2019-R-025 

WHEREAS, certain developments are located in areas of the City of Gridley where limited 

street improvements exist; and,  

 
WHEREAS, the proposed subdivision shown on Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19 will reimburse the 
cost of the improvements to the City of Gridley, located on West Biggs Gridley Road by agreement; and,   

 

 
WHEREAS, the property owners, Hilbers Properties, Inc.  have requested the required public 

improvements be delayed because there is limited connectivity of the sidewalks along the street frontage; 
and,  
 

WHEREAS, the property owners, Hilbers Properties, Inc, acknowledge the responsibility for the 

design and construction costs are hereby transferred to the twenty parcels of the subdivision in accordance 
with the said Reimbursement Agreement.  

 
WHEREAS, the cost for the improvements shall be assessed and equally divided among the twenty 

parcels to be paid over a specified time period with an incremental increase in accordance with the 
currently adopted CPI percent annual increase. 

 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: 

 

 

1.  The City of Gridley authorizes the City Administrator execute an Agreement for reimbursement 
of  design  and  construction  costs  for  the  public  improvements  on  West  Biggs  Gridley  Road 
required by Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19, APN Nos.  022-230-022, -024 & -025, 2019-R-025. 

 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced, passed, and adopted by the City 

 
Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019 by the following 
vote: 
 
 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

AYES: 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

NOES:    

COUNCILMEMBERS  

ABSTAIN: 

COUNCILMEMBERS  

ABSENT: 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

 

 

ATTEST:  

 

 

_______________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

_______________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-027 
 

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO EXECUTE A LANDSCAPING, 

LIGHTING, UTILITY AND WEST BIGGS GRIDLEY ROAD ASSESSMENT DISTRICT TO PROVIDE FOR 

THE MAINTENANCE OF THE SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT 

CONSTRUCTION COSTS FOR TENTATIVE SUBDIVISION MAP 1-19, 

RESOLUTION NO. 2019-R-025 

 
WHEREAS, the proposed subdivision shown on Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19 will construct 

certain public improvements requiring on-going maintenance and repair; and,  

 
WHEREAS, proposed sewer lift station, detention basin, lighting, landscaping, and irrigation will 

need continued maintenance; and,  
 

paid for by an assessment; and,   

WHEREAS, the public improvements located on the east side of West Biggs Gridley Road will be 

 
WHEREAS, the cost for the improvements shall be assessed and equally divided among the twenty 

parcels to be paid over a specified time period with an incremental increase in accordance with the 
currently adopted CPI percent annual increase. 

 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: 

 

1.  The City of Gridley authorizes the City Administrator execute a Lighting, Landscape and 
Public  Improvement  Assessment  District  for  the  purposes  of  collecting  funds  for  the 
ongoing maintenance of landscaping, lighting, and public improvements and to collect 
funds  for  the  reimbursement  of  the  construction  of  public  improvement  along  West 
Biggs Gridley Road for the benefit of the property owners of  the twenty parcels created 
by the Tentative Subdivision Map 1-19, APN Nos.  022-230-022, -024 & -025, 2019-R-025, 
and its corresponding Final Map. 

 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was introduced, passed, and adopted by the City 

 
Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting held on the 7th day of October, 2019 by the following 
vote: 
 
 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

AYES: 

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

NOES:    

COUNCILMEMBERS  

ABSTAIN: 

COUNCILMEMBERS  

ABSENT: 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

 

 

 

ATTEST:  

 

 

________________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

 

 

 
 

APPROVE: 

________________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

From: 
 
Subject: 

City Council Agenda Item #7 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Council 

 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

Emergency 

City Administrator Paul Eckert and City Engineer Dave Harden 

Adoption of the Notice of Determination of the Environmental Documents Little 
Ave Lift Station and Force Main Project 

  

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully recommends adoption of the Final CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative 
Declaration and the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Little Ave Lift Station and 
Force Main Replacement Project dated September 2019.  
 
Background  
The City has pursued financial assistance for the improvements needed at the Little Ave sewer lift station 
and replacement of the force main. The City has received technical assistance through the State, which 
has funded and completed the environmental review and documentation requirements to receive state 
financial assistance.   
 
Fiscal Impact 
The fiscal impact associated with this action is $2,400 for filing fees. 
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters.   
 
Attachment 

•  Final CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Little Ave Lift Station 

and Force Main Replacement Project dated September 2019.    

•  Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Little Ave Lift Station and Force Main 

Replacement Project dated September 2019.  

 
 
 

Final CEQA Plus Initial Study and  
Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Lift Station and Forced Main 
Replacement Project 

September 2019 

Lead Agency: 
 

 
City of Gridley 
685 Kentucky Street 
Gridley, California 95948  

Prepared by: 
 

55 Hanover Lane 
Suite A 
Chico, California 95973 
 
 

 
 
 

 

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

CONTENTS 

SECTION 1.0 

SECTION 2.0 

SECTION 3.0 

 

 

Introduction ...................................................................................................................................................... 1-1 
1.1 
Background of Environmental Review Process for the Project ................................... 1-1 
Intended Uses of the IS/MND .................................................................................................. 1-1 
1.2 
1.3 
Organization and Scope of this Document ......................................................................... 1-3 

Response to Comments .............................................................................................................................. 2-1 
List of Commenters....................................................................................................................... 2-1 
2.1 
2.2 
Comments and Responses ........................................................................................................ 2-1 

Revisions to the Initial Study ..................................................................................................................... 3-1 
3.1 
Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 3-1 
Revisions to the Initial Study ..................................................................................................... 3-1 
3.2 

 

Final ISMND 

 

i 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 

 

 

Final ISMND 

 

ii 

September 2019 
City of Gridley 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

INTRODUCTION 

SECTION 1.0 
This document, in conjunction with the draft Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration (IS/MND), 
responds to comments made on the proposed Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project. 
While the State California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) Guidelines do not require a final initial 
study or the preparation of formal responses to comments on draft initial studies/mitigated negative 
declarations the City has determined to provide responses to the comments it has received in order 
to provide further disclosure of the Project's impacts. 

1.1 

1.1.1 

Background of Environmental Review Process for the Project 

INITIAL STUDY 

The IS/MND was released for public and agency review on July 26, 2019, with the 30-day review 
period ending on August 24, 2019. The City received two comment letters during this review period. 

1.1.2 

RESPONSE TO COMMENTS 

This section provides a response to comments received on the IS/MND and is included as Section 2.0 
of this document. 

1.1.3 

REVISIONS TO THE INITIAL STUDY  

This section provides a list of revisions made to the IS/MND as a result of comments received. 

1.2 

Intended Uses of the IS/MND 

The IS/MND in its final form will be used by the City of Gridley in considering approval of the 
proposed Project. In accordance with CEQA Guidelines Section 15074, the IS/MND will be used as 
the primary environmental document in consideration of all subsequent planning and permitting 
actions associated with the project, to the extent such actions require CEQA compliance and as 
otherwise permitted under applicable law. 

1.2.1 

CONSIDERATION OF COMMENTS 

Prior to taking action on the proposed Project, the City will consider the IS/MND, this response to 
comments document, and any additional comments or testimony. Negative declarations and 
mitigated declarations are considered and adopted per CEQA Guidelines Section 15074, which reads 
as follows: 

15074. CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION OF A NEGATIVE DECLARATION OR 
MITIGATED NEGATIVE DECLARATION. 

(a)  Any advisory body of a public agency making a recommendation to the decision-making 
body shall consider the proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration 
before making its recommendation. 

Introduction 

 

1-1 

September 2019 
City of Gridley 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

(b)  Prior to approving a project, the decision-making body of the lead agency shall consider 

the proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration together with any 
comments received during the public review process. The decision-making body shall 
adopt the proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration only if it finds 
on the basis of the whole record before it (including the initial study and any comments 
received), that there is no substantial evidence that the project will have a significant 
effect on the environment and that the negative declaration or mitigated negative 
declaration reflects the lead agency’s independent judgment and analysis. 

(c)  When adopting a negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration, the lead agency 

shall specify the location and custodian of the documents or other material which 
constitute the record of proceedings upon which its decision is based. 

(d)  When adopting a mitigated negative declaration, the lead agency shall also adopt a 

program for reporting on or monitoring the changes which it has either required in the 
project or made a condition of approval to mitigate or avoid significant environmental 
effects. 

(e)  A lead agency shall not adopt a negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration 

for a project within the boundaries of a comprehensive airport land use plan or, if a 
comprehensive airport land use plan has not been adopted, for a project within two 
nautical miles of a public airport or public use airport, without first considering whether 
the project will result in a safety hazard or noise problem for persons using the airport or 
for persons residing or working in the project area. 

(f)  When a non-elected official or decision-making body of a local lead agency adopts a 

negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration, that adoption may be appealed 
to the agency’s elected decision-making body, if one exists. For example, adoption of a 
negative declaration for a project by a city’s planning commission may be appealed to 
the city council. A local lead agency may establish procedures governing such appeals. 

Upon review and consideration of the IS/MND, the City may take action to adopt, revise, or reject the 
proposed Project. A decision to approve the proposed Project would be made in a resolution 
recommending certification of the IS/MND as part of the consideration of the proposed Project. The 
City of Gridley has prepared this IS/MND and has determined that the environmental impacts of the 
proposed Project have been reduced to a less than significant level through mitigation measures 
adopted as part of a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program (MMRP). 

 

 

Introduction 

 

1-2 

September 2019 
City of Gridley 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Organization and Scope of this Document 

This document is organized in the following manner: 

SECTION 1.0 – INTRODUCTION 

Section 1.0 provides an overview of the environmental review process to date and discusses the 
CEQA requirements for consideration and adoption of a mitigated negative declaration. 

SECTION 2.0 – COMMENTS AND RESPONSES TO COMMENTS 

 

Section 2.0 provides a list of commenters, copies of written comments (coded for reference), and the 
responses to those comments made on the IS/MND.  

SECTION 3.0 – REVISIONS TO THE DRAFT INITIAL STUDY 

Section 3.0 provides edits to the Initial Study in response to comments received during the public 
review period. 

 

 

Introduction 

 

1-3 

September 2019 
City of Gridley 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

 

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 

Introduction 

 

1-4 

September 2019 
City of Gridley 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

SECTION 2.0 

RESPONSE TO COMMENTS 

2.1 

List of Commenters 

The following individuals and representatives of organizations and agencies submitted written 
comments on the IS/MND.   

Letter 

A 
B 

Agency, Organization, or Individual 

Scott Zaitz, Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board 
Caitlyn Oswalt, State Water Resources Control Board 

Date 

August 7, 2019 
August 22, 2019 

2.2 

2.2.1 

Comments and Responses 

RESPONSES TO COMMENT LETTERS 

Written comments on the draft IS/MND are reproduced on the following pages, along with 
responses to those comments. CEQA does not require lead agencies to provide formal responses to 
comments received on initial studies supporting proposed mitigated negative declarations; however, 
the City prepared this response to comments document to provide responses to comments received 
on the IS/MND in order to provide comprehensive information and disclosure for both the public 
and City’s decision-makers. 

Where changes deemed necessary to clarify the draft IS/MND text result from responding to 
comments, those minor changes are included in the response and demarcated with revision marks 
(underline for new text, strikeout for deleted text).  

 

 

Response to Comments 

 

2-1 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Letter A - Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board 

 

 

 

Response to Comments 

 

2-2 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

 

 

 

Response to Comments 

 

2-3 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Response to Comments 

 

2-4 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Comment Letter A – Scott Zaitz, Central Valley Regional Water Quality Control Board 

Response A-1: 

This comment is a summary of required permits and certifications required 
for the Proposed Project, submitted by the Central Valley Regional Water 
Quality Control Board. The comment letter does not include specific 
suggestions or comments regarding the contents or adequacy of the 
IS/MND. This comment is noted and will be provided to the Planning 
Commission and City Council for consideration.  

 

 

Response to Comments 

 

2-5 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Letter B - State Water Resource Control Board 

Response to Comments 

 

2-6 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Response to Comments 

 

2-7 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Response to Comments 

 

2-8 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Response to Comments 

 

2-9 

 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

Comment Letter B – Caitlyn Oswalt, State Water Resource Control Board 

Response B-1: 

 

 

 

Response B-2: 

This comment notes that the Project will be required to meet certain 
requirements as the City is pursuing Clean Water State Revolving Fund 
(CWSRF) financing for the Project. The letter states that in order to obtain 
funding, the Project must be evaluated in a CEQA Plus Initial Study and must 
obtain certain clearances.  

The Project requires ESA Section 7 clearance from the United States 
Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and/or the 
United States Department of Commerce National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) specific to any 
potential effects to special-status species. The letter states that the City must 
identify any potential effects to special-status species. 

The Project also must comply with Section 106 of the National Historic 
Preservation Act for cultural resource impact evaluation.  

Further, the City must identify the Area of Potential Effects (APE) to the 
specifications included in the letter. The letter includes a list of other federal 
requirements pertinent to the Proposed Project. 

The Project was evaluated using the CEQA Plus Initial Study format including 
those requirements of the ESA Section 7 and Section 106. 

The comment recommends the inclusion of a frac-out plan as a mitigation 
measure in order to mitigate for the potential release of hazardous waste in a 
frac-out event. A frac-out event is possible due to the horizontal directional 
drilling (HDD) required for the Project to cross under a Butte Water District 
irrigation canal. 

As such the following text has been added to the IS/MND to incorporate this 
mitigation measure. Refer to Section 3.0 for the specific revision to the 
IS/MND. 

“However, the Project requires that horizontal directional drilling (HDD) 
be performed to construct the portion of the pipeline that is to cross 
under the Butte Water District irrigation canal. Projects that involve 
HDD have the potential for a frac-out event to occur. A frac-out event 
would release drilling fluids (mud) to the surface. Drilling fluid contains 
substances that may adversely affect fish and invertebrates. This impact 
can be mitigated to a less than significant level by requiring a frac-out 
plan be prepared for the Project (HAZ-1). 

Response to Comments 

 

2-10 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

HAZ-1: A frac-out plan shall be developed by a qualified engineer for 
the Proposed Project to address the risk of frac-out and potential 
subsequent release of hazardous materials into waterways that is 
associated with HDD. The frac-out plan must address protocol for 
minimizing environmental damage that may result from the potential 
inadvertent release of drilling fluid in the event of a frac-out. The plan 
shall contain procedures for containing the released drilling material 
and hazardous material cleanup and storage protocol. The frac-out plan 
must also address the sediment control procedures as contained in the 
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP). The plan must be 
developed and approved prior to commencement of construction. 
Protocol  included in the frac-out plan must be adhered to in the event 
of a frac-out.  

Timing/Implementation:  Prior to and during construction activities 

Monitoring/Enforcement:  City of Gridley” 

Response B-3: 

The comment lists five documents that must be uploaded through the 
Financial Assistance Application Submittal Tool (FAAST). The comment also 
states that the SWRCB would like notices of hearings or meetings held 
regarding environmental review of any projects to be funded by the State 
Water Board. 

The comment is noted. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Response to Comments 

 

2-11 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 

Response to Comments 

 

2-12 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

SECTION 3.0 

REVISIONS TO THE INITIAL STUDY 

3.1 

Introduction 

This section includes edits to the Initial Study in response to comments received during the public 
review period. Changes are provided in revision marks (underline for new text and strike out for 
deleted text). 

3.2 

Revisions to the Initial Study 

SUMMARY 

Page S-4: 

The following change has been made to page S-4 

HAZ-1: A frac-out plan shall be developed by a qualified engineer for the Proposed Project to address the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

risk of frac-out and potential subsequent release of hazardous materials into waterways that is 
associated with HDD. The frac-out plan must address protocol for minimizing environmental 
damage that may result from the potential inadvertent release of drilling fluid in the event of a 
frac-out. The plan shall contain procedures for containing the released drilling material and 
hazardous material cleanup and storage protocol. The frac-out plan must also address the 
sediment control procedures as contained in the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP). 
The plan must be developed and approved prior to commencement of construction. Protocol 
included in the frac-out plan must be adhered to in the event of a frac-out.  

Timing/Implementation: 

Prior to and during construction activities 

Monitoring/Enforcement:  

City of Gridley 

SECTION 4.0 ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST AND DISCUSSION 

Page 4-54: 

The following change has been made to page 4-54: 

Would the Project: 

b) 

Create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment through reasonably foreseeable 
upset and accident conditions involving the 
release of hazardous materials into the 
environment? 

Potentially 
Significant 

Impact 

Less than 

Significant with 

Mitigation 
Incorporated 

Less than 
Significant 

Impact 

No 

Impact 

 

 

 

 

Revisions to the Initial Study 

 

3-1 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

Final Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 
Little Avenue Pump Station and Forced Main Project 

As discussed in Issue a), the Project would not result in the routine transport, use, disposal, handling, or 
emission of any hazardous materials that would create a significant hazard to the public or the 
environment. Potential construction-related hazards could be created during the course of Project 
construction at the site, given that construction activities involve the use of heavy equipment, which uses 
small and incidental amounts of oils and fuels and other potentially flammable substances. The level of 
risk associated with the accidental release of hazardous substances due to heavy equipment use is not 
considered significant due to the small volume and low concentration of hazardous materials used during 
construction. The construction contractor would be required to use standard construction controls and 
safety procedures that would avoid and minimize the potential for accidental release of such substances 
into the environment. Standard construction practices would be observed such that any materials released 
are appropriately contained and remediated as required by local, state, and federal law. 

Because no hazardous materials would be used for operation of the Project, short-term construction and 
long-term operation impacts associated with handling, storing, and disposing of hazardous materials from 
project operation would be less than significant. 

However, the Project requires that horizontal directional drilling (HDD) be performed to construct the 
portion of the pipeline that is to cross under the Butte Water District irrigation canal. Projects that involve 
HDD have the potential for a frac-out event to occur. A frac-out event would release drilling fluids (mud) 
to the surface. Drilling fluid contains substances that may adversely affect fish and invertebrates. This 
impact can be mitigated to a less than significant level by requiring a frac-out plan be prepared for the 
Project (HAZ-1).  

Page 4-56: 

The following change has been made to page 4-56: 

4.9.3  Mitigation Measures 

No significant impacts were identified, and no mitigation measures are required. 

HAZ-1: A frac-out plan shall be developed by a qualified engineer for the Proposed Project to address the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

risk of frac-out and potential subsequent release of hazardous materials into waterways that is 
associated with HDD. The frac-out plan must address protocol for minimizing environmental 
damage that may result from the potential inadvertent release of drilling fluid in the event of a 
frac-out. The plan shall contain procedures for containing the released drilling material and 
hazardous material cleanup and storage protocol. The frac-out plan must also address the 
sediment control procedures as contained in the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP). 
The plan must be developed and approved prior to commencement of construction. Protocol 
included in the frac-out plan must be adhered to in the event of a frac-out.  

Timing/Implementation: 

Prior to and during construction activities 

Monitoring/Enforcement:  

City of Gridley 

 

Revisions to the Initial Study 

 

3-2 

September 2019 
City of Gridley) 

MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Gridley Little Avenue and Forced Main Replacement Project  

CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 

September 2019 

 

 

 

Page | 1 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 

PREFACE 

 
Section 21081.6 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the environment.  The 
purpose of the monitoring and reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project implementation. 
 
The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration prepared for the Little Avenue Lift Station and Forced Main Replacement Project concluded that the 
implementation of the project could result in significant effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project 
or are required as a condition of project approval. This Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when 
they will be implemented. 
 
This document does not discuss those subjects for which the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration concluded that the impacts from 
implementation of the project would be less than significant. 
 
I,        ____        , the applicant, on the behalf of              _______         , hereby agree to fully implement the Mitigation Measures described below 
which have been developed in conjunction with the preparation of an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for my proposed project.  I understand 
that these mitigation measures or substantially similar measures will be adopted as conditions of approval with my development permit request to avoid 
or significantly reduce potential environmental impacts to a less than significant level. 
 
Project Applicant’s Signature _____________________________________________ 
Date___________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 2 

 
City of Gridley 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

Biological Resources 
Impact BIO-1:  
MM-BIO-1: VELB Avoidance. A qualified 
biologist shall be consulted to ensure that the 
directional bore (beneath the BWD irrigation 
canal) entry and exit pits are located to avoid 
impacts to elderberry shrubs. Elderberry plants 
present in the Project area shall be avoided by 
project activities. 
 
Impact BIO-2: 
MM-BIO-2: Nesting Bird Work Window. 
Complete all ground-disturbing and vegetation-
disturbing work during the non-nesting season to 
avoid impacts to nesting birds, which generally 
corresponds to the period September 1 through 
January 31. 
Impact BIO-3: 
MM-BIO-3: Nesting Bird Pre-construction 
Surveys. If it is not feasible to implement 
mitigation measure BIO-2, a qualified biologist 
shall survey all areas to be disturbed by project 
construction no more than 14 days in advance of 
activities. Active bird nests identified during the 
survey effort shall be avoided until such time that 
the qualified biologist has determined that the 
nest(s) is vacant. Depending on the location of the 
active nest(s), the qualified biologist may 

Page | 3 

 

 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

Prior to construction a 
biologist should ensure 
elderberry bushes are 
located to avoid 
elderberry shrubs. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction. 

City of Gridley 

VELB biological 
survey.  

Prior to and 
during 
construction. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction; 
survey no more 
than 14 days in 
advance of 
construction 
activities. 

Complete all ground-
disturbing and vegetation-
disturbing work during 
the non-nesting season 
(September 1 through 
January 31). 

A biologist shall survey 
areas to be disturbed by 
project construction. 
Active bird nests 
identified during the 
survey effort shall be 
avoided until such time 
that the qualified biologist 
has determined that the 
nest(s) is vacant or a no-

 

City of Gridley 

Nesting bird 
work window 
compliance. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

City of Gridley 

Nesting bird pre-
construction 
Surveys. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction; 
survey no 
more than 14 
days in 
advance of 
construction 
activities. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

establish a no-work buffer around the active 
nest(s). 
 

Impact BIO-4: 
MM-BIO-4: Minimize disturbance to Aquatic 
Features. Project activities shall avoid disturbance 
to the roadside ditch south of Little Avenue 
(Figure 7), and to the ditch feature that is a 
tributary to the BWD irrigation canal (Figure 8) to 
the maximum extent feasible. Prior to 
commencement of construction activities, the 
specific portions of waterways to be disturbed for 
installation of a box culvert and generator pad 
shall be delineated by a qualified engineer. For 
necessary, unavoidable disturbance of aquatic 
features, BIO-5 shall be implemented. 
 

Impact BIO-5: 
MM-BIO-5: Jurisdictional Delineation and 
Permitting. In instances where it is not feasible to 
implement mitigation measure BIO-4, a qualified 
biologist should be retained to complete a formal 
jurisdictional delineation of the two noted ditch 
features to determine their regulatory statuses and 
requirements. Depending on the results of this 
delineation effort, additional permitting efforts 
may be required prior to completing project 
activities in and near these ditch features. 
Page | 4 

 

work buffer may be 
established around the 
active nest(s). 
 

Avoid disturbance to two 
water features: the 
roadside ditch south of 
Little Avenue and to the 
ditch feature that is a 
tributary to the BWD 
irrigation canal. 
 
Prior to construction, 
point of waterways to be 
disturbed for the box 
culvert and generator pad 
shall be delineated.  

A biologist should 
complete a formal 
jurisdictional delineation 
of the two noted ditch 
features. 
 
Depending on their 
regulatory statuses and 
requirements, additional 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

City of Gridley 

Minimize 
disturbance to 
aquatic features. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

City of Gridley 

Jurisdictional 
Delineation and 
Permitting. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

During 
Construction. 

City of Gridley 

During 
Construction. 

Follow proper 
protocol 
regarding 
discovery of 
potential cultural 
or human 
remains. 

 
 

 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

Cultural Resources 
Impact CUL-1: 
MM CUL-1: If subsurface deposits believed to be 
cultural or human in origin are discovered during 
grading and construction activities, all work must 
halt within a 100-foot radius of the discovery. A 
qualified professional archaeologist, meeting the 
Secretary of the Interior’s Professional 
Qualification Standards for prehistoric and 
historic archaeologist, shall be retained to evaluate 
the significance of the find, and shall have the 
authority to modify the no-work radius as 
appropriate, using professional judgment. The 
following notifications shall apply, depending on 
the nature of the find: 
If the professional archaeologist determines that 
the find does not represent a cultural resource, 
work may resume immediately, and no agency 
notifications are required. 
If the professional archaeologist determines that 
the find does represent a cultural resource from 
any time period or cultural affiliation, he or she 
shall immediately notify the lead agency and 
applicable landowner. The agency shall consult on 
a finding of eligibility and implement appropriate 

permitting efforts may be 
required prior to 
completing project 
activities in and near these 
ditch features. 

If a subsurface deposit 
believed to be cultural or 
human in origin is 
discovered, all work must 
halt in a 100-foot radius. 
 
A qualified archeologist 
must evaluate the 
resource. 
 
If it is determined that the 
find does represent a 
cultural resource from any 
time period or cultural 
affiliation, the lead agency 
and applicable landowner 
shall be notified.  
 
The agency shall consult 
on a finding of eligibility 
and implement 

Page | 5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

appropriate treatment 
measures. 
 
If the find includes human 
remains, or remains that 
are potentially human, the 
archaeologist shall ensure 
reasonable protection 
measures are taken to 
protect the discovery from 
disturbance and notify the 
Butte County Coroner. 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

treatment measures, if the find is determined to be 
eligible for inclusion in the National Register of 
Historic Places (NRHP) or California Register of 
Historic Places (CRHR). Work may not resume 
within the no-work radius until the lead agency, 
through consultation as appropriate, determines 
that the site either: 1) is not eligible for the NRHP 
or CRHR, or 2) that the treatment measures have 
been completed to their satisfaction. 
If the find includes human remains, or remains 
that are potentially human, the archaeologist shall 
ensure reasonable protection measures are taken 
to protect the discovery from disturbance (AB 
2641). The archaeologist shall notify the Butte 
County Coroner (as per § 7050.5 of the Health 
and Safety Code). The provisions of § 7050.5 of 
the California Health and Safety Code, § 5097.98 
of the California Public Resources Code (PRC), 
and AB 2641 will be implemented. If the Coroner 
determines the remains are Native American and 
not the result of a crime scene, the Coroner will 
notify the Native American Heritage Committee 
(NAHC), which then will designate a Native 
American Most Likely Descendant (MLD) for the 
Project (§ 5097.98 of the PRC). The designated 
MLD will have 48 hours from the time access to 
the property is granted to make recommendations 
concerning treatment of the remains. If the 
landowner does not agree with the 
recommendations of the MLD, the NAHC can 
mediate (§ 5097.94 of the PRC). If no agreement 

Page | 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

is reached, the landowner must rebury the remains 
where they will not be further disturbed (§ 
5097.98 of the PRC). This will also include either 
recording the site with the NAHC or the 
appropriate Information Center; using an open 
space or conservation zoning designation or 
easement; or recording a reinternment document 
with the county in which the property is located 
(Assembly Bill [AB] 2641). Work may not 
resume within the no-work radius until the lead 
agency, through consultation as appropriate, 
determines that the treatment measures have been 
completed to their satisfaction. 
 
Geology and Soils 
Impact GEO-1: 
MM GEO-1: If paleontological or other 
geologically sensitive resources are identified 
during any phase of project development, the 
construction manager shall cease operation at the 
site of the discovery and immediately notify City 
of Gridley. City of Gridley shall retain a qualified 
paleontologist to provide an evaluation of the find 
and to prescribe mitigation measures to reduce 
impacts to a less-than-significant level. In 
considering any suggested mitigation proposed by 
the consulting paleontologist, City of Gridley 
shall determine whether avoidance is necessary 
and feasible in light of factors such as the nature 
of the find, project design, costs, land use 
assumptions, and other considerations. If 
Page | 7 

 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

During 
Construction. 

City of Gridley 

During 
Construction. 

Follow proper 
protocol in the 
event of a 
paleontological 
or geologically 
sensitive resource 
discovery.  

If paleontological or other 
geologically sensitive 
resources are identified 
during any phase of 
project development, the 
construction manager 
shall cease operation at 
the site and notify City of 
Gridley.  
 
The City shall retain a 
qualified paleontologist to 
provide an evaluation of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

avoidance is unnecessary or infeasible, other 
appropriate measures (e.g., data recovery) shall be 
instituted. Work may proceed on other parts of the 
project site while mitigation for paleontological 
resources is carried out. 

Hazards and Hazardous Materials 
Impact HAZ-1: 
MM HAZ-1: A frac-out plan shall be developed 
by a qualified engineer for the Proposed Project to 
address the risk of frac-out and potential 
subsequent release of hazardous materials into 
waterways that is associated with HDD. The frac-
out plan must address protocol for minimizing 
environmental damage that may result from the 
potential inadvertent release of drilling fluid in the 
event of a frac-out. The plan shall contain 
procedures for containing the released drilling 
material and hazardous material cleanup and 
storage protocol. The frac-out plan must also 
address the sediment control procedures as 
contained in the stormwater pollution prevention 
plan (SWPPP). The plan must be developed and 
approved prior to commencement of construction. 
Page | 8 

 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

the find and to prescribe 
mitigation measures to 
reduce impacts to a less-
than-significant level.  
 
Proper mitigation will be 
determined by the 
paleontologist and the 
City. Work may continue 
in other areas of the 
Project site while 
mitigation is determined.  

A frac-out plan shall be 
developed to minimize 
release of drilling fluids 
and subsequent 
environmental harm in the 
event of a frac-out.  

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities.  

City of Gridley 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

Creation of a 
frac-out plan. In 
the event of a 
frac-out event, 
compliance with 
the frac-out plan 
is required.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

 

 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Little Avenue and Force  

Main Replacement Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

Protocol included in the frac-out plan must be 
adhered to in the event of a frac-out. 

 
Source: City of Gridley Little Avenue Lift Station and Forced Main Replacement Project IS/MND 

Page | 9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

From: 
 
Subject: 

City Council Agenda Item #8 

Staff Report 

October 7, 2019 

Mayor and City Council   

X  Regular  
 
Special 
 
Closed 
 
Emergency 

City Administrator Paul Eckert and City Engineer Dave Harden 

Adoption of the Notice of Determination of the Environmental Documents Waterline 
Replacement Project 

  

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully recommends adoption of the Draft CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative 
Declaration and the Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Waterline Replacement 
Project dated June 2019.  
 
Background  
The City has pursued financial assistance for the improvements needed at the Little Ave sewer lift station 
and replacement of the force main. The City has received technical assistance through the State, which 
has funded and completed the environmental review and documentation requirements to receive state 
financial assistance.  No comments were received, so the draft IS/MND became the final CEQA document 
since edits were not needed. 
 
Fiscal Impact 
The fiscal impact associated with this action is $2,400 for filing fees. 
  
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters.   
 
Attachment 

•  Draft CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration for the Waterline Replacement 
Project dated June 2019 (Available for review at the Administration Counter in City Hall or online 
at www.gridley.ca.us) 

•  Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program for the Waterline Replacement Project dated 

September 2019.  

 
 

MITIGATION MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Gridley Waterline Replacement Project  

CEQA Plus Initial Study and Mitigated Negative Declaration 

September 2019 

 

 

 

Page | 1 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 

PREFACE 

 
Section 21081.6 of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) requires a Lead Agency to adopt a Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting 
Program whenever it approves a project for which measures have been required to mitigate or avoid significant effects on the environment.  The 
purpose of the monitoring and reporting program is to ensure compliance with the mitigation measures during project implementation. 
 
The Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration prepared for Gridley Waterline Replacement Project concluded that the implementation of the project 
could result in significant effects on the environment and mitigation measures were incorporated into the proposed project or are required as a condition of 
project approval. This Mitigation Monitoring and Reporting Program addresses those measures in terms of how and when they will be implemented. 
 
This document does not discuss those subjects for which the Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration concluded that the impacts from 
implementation of the project would be less than significant. 
 
I,        ____        , the applicant, on the behalf of              _______         , hereby agree to fully implement the Mitigation Measures described below 
which have been developed in conjunction with the preparation of an Initial Study/Mitigated Negative Declaration for my proposed project.  I understand 
that these mitigation measures or substantially similar measures will be adopted as conditions of approval with my development permit request to avoid 
or significantly reduce potential environmental impacts to a less than significant level. 
 
Project Applicant’s Signature _____________________________________________ 
Date___________________________________________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page | 2 

City of Gridley 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Biological Resources  
Impact BIO-1:  
MM-BIO-1: Valley elderberry longhorn beetle 
avoidance shall be integrated into Project 
construction activities. Prior to project site work 
for a given section of the Project, a qualified 
biologist shall complete a determinate survey for 
elderberry shrubs within the final project 
alignment. The survey shall be performed no 
more than 14 days prior to the commencement of 
the next section of construction. Elderberry plants 
present in the project area shall be avoided by 
project activities. 

Impact BIO-2: 
MM-BIO-2: Implement a nesting-bird work 
window to avoid disturbance of nesting birds. All 
ground disturbing and vegetation disturbing work 
must be completed during the non-nesting season 
between the dates of September 1 through January 
31. Construction activities are prohibited during 
the nesting season of February 1-August 31.  
Impact BIO-3: 
MM-BIO-3: If BIO-2 is determined infeasible, a 
qualified biologist must conduct a pre-
construction nesting-bird survey of all suitable 
habitat on the Project site no more than 14 days 
prior to the commencement of construction during 
the nesting season (February 1-August 31). 
Surveys should be conducted within 500 feet of 

Page | 3 

A minimum of 14 days 
prior to the 
commencement of  
construction, a qualified 
biologist shall complete a 
survey for elderberry 
shrubs. Elderberry plants 
present in the project 
alignment area shall be 
avoided. 

Complete all ground-
disturbing and vegetation-
disturbing work during 
the non-nesting season 
(September 1 through 
January 31). 

14 days or less 
prior to 
commencement of 
Project 
construction 
activity for a 
given section of 
the Project and 
during 
construction 
activities.  
 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction; 
survey no more 
than 14 days in 
advance of 

A biologist shall survey 
areas to be disturbed by 
project construction. 
Active bird nests 
identified during the 
survey effort shall be 
avoided until such time 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

City of Gridley 

Biological 
survey.  

City of Gridley 

Nesting bird 
work window 
compliance 

City of Gridley 

Nesting bird 
pre-construction 
Surveys. 

14 days or less 
prior to 
commencement 
of Project 
construction 
activity for a 
given section of 
the Project and 
during 
construction 
activities.  
 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction; 
survey no more 
than 14 days in 
advance of 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

 

 

the Project for Swainson’s hawk. If active nests 
are found, a no-disturbance buffer around the nest 
shall be established. The buffer distance shall be 
established by a biologist in consultation with 
California Department of Fish and Wildlife or the 
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 
lead agency. The buffer shall be maintained until 
the fledglings are capable of flight and become 
independent of the nest tree, to be determined by a 
qualified biologist. Once the young are 
independent of the nest, no further measures are 
necessary. Pre-construction nesting surveys are 
not required for construction activity outside the 
nesting season. 
 
Impact BIO-4: 
MM-BIO-4: Avoidance of aquatic features shall 
be implemented so Project activities shall avoid 
disturbances to the riverine features shown in 
Figure 5. Noise Contours, i.e., along Yew Street, 
north of Colusa Highway, west of West Biggs 
Gridley Road, and an irrigation canal, and any 
other aquatic features within the Project site not 
reported by the National Wetland Inventory.  
 
Impact BIO-5: 
MM-BIO-5: Jurisdictional Delineation and 
Permitting shall be implemented if it is not 
feasible to implement BIO-4. A qualified 
biologist should be retained to complete a formal 
jurisdictional delineation of Project site aquatic 
Page | 4 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

construction 
activities. 
 

that the qualified biologist 
has determined that the 
nest(s) is vacant or a no-
work buffer may be 
established around the 
active nest(s). 
 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

construction 
activities. 

Avoid disturbance to all 
riverine features, an 
irrigation canal, and all 
aquatic features not 
reported by the National 
Wetland Inventory.  

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

City of Gridley 

Minimize 
disturbance to 
aquatic features. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

A biologist should 
complete a formal 
jurisdictional delineation 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

City of Gridley 

Jurisdictional 
Delineation and 
Permitting. 

Prior to and 
during 
construction 
activities. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

 

 

features to determine their regulatory statuses and 
requirements. Depending on the results of this 
delineation, additional permitting efforts may be 
required prior to completing project activities in 
and near these ditch features. 

Cultural Resources: 
Impact CUL-1: 
MM CUL-1: If subsurface deposits believed to be 
cultural or human in origin are discovered during 
grading and construction activities, all work must 
halt within a 100-foot radius of the discovery. A 
qualified professional archaeologist, meeting the 
Secretary of the Interior’s Professional 
Qualification Standards for prehistoric and 
historic archaeologist, shall be retained to evaluate 
the significance of the find, and shall have the 
authority to modify the no-work radius as 
appropriate, using professional judgment. The 
following notifications shall apply, depending on 
the nature of the find: 
If the professional archaeologist determines that 
the find does not represent a cultural resource, 
work may resume immediately and no agency 
notifications are required. 
Page | 5 

 

of the two noted ditch 
features. 
 
Depending on their 
regulatory statuses and 
requirements, additional 
permitting efforts may be 
required prior to 
completing project 
activities in and near these 
ditch features. 

If a subsurface deposit 
believed to be cultural or 
human in origin is 
discovered, all work must 
halt in a 100-foot radius. 
 
A qualified archeologist 
must evaluate the 
resource. 
 
If it is determined that the 
find does represent a 
cultural resource from any 
time period or cultural 
affiliation, the lead agency 

During 
Construction. 

City of Gridley 

During 
Construction. 

Follow proper 
protocol 
regarding 
discovery of 
potential 
cultural or 
human remains. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

and applicable landowner 
shall be notified.  
 
The agency shall consult 
on a finding of eligibility 
and implement 
appropriate treatment 
measures. 
 
If the find includes human 
remains, or remains that 
are potentially human, the 
archaeologist shall ensure 
reasonable protection 
measures are taken to 
protect the discovery from 
disturbance and notify the 
Butte County Coroner. 

 

 

If the professional archaeologist determines that 
the find does represent a cultural resource from 
any time period or cultural affiliation, he or she 
shall immediately notify the State Water 
Resources Control Board, the City of Gridley, and 
applicable landowner. The agencies shall consult 
on a finding of eligibility and implement 
appropriate treatment measures, if the find is 
determined to be a Historical Resource under 
CEQA, as defined in Section 15064.5(a) of the 
CEQA Guidelines. Work may not resume within 
the no-work radius until the lead agencies, 
through consultation as appropriate, determine 
that the site either: 1) is not a Historical Resource 
under CEQA, as defined in Section 15064.5(a) of 
the CEQA Guidelines; or 2) that the treatment 
measures have been completed to their 
satisfaction. 
If the find includes human remains, or remains 
that are potentially human, the professional 
archaeologist shall ensure reasonable protection 
measures are taken to protect the discovery from 
disturbance (AB 2641). The archaeologist shall 
notify the Butte County Coroner (per § 7050.5 of 
the Health and Safety Code). The provisions of § 
7050.5 of the California Health and Safety Code, 
§ 5097.98 of the California Public Resources 
Code (PRC), and Assembly Bill (AB) 2641 will 
be implemented. If the Coroner determines the 
remains are Native American and not the result of 
a crime scene, the Coroner will notify the Native 

Page | 6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

 

 

American Heritage Commission (NAHC), which 
then will designate a Native American Most 
Likely Descendant (MLD) for the project 
(§ 5097.98 of the PRC). The designated MLD will 
have 48 hours from the time access to the property 
is granted to make recommendations concerning 
treatment of the remains. If the landowner does 
not agree with the recommendations of the MLD, 
the NAHC can mediate (§ 5097.94 of the PRC). If 
no agreement is reached, the landowner must 
rebury the remains where they will not be further 
disturbed (§ 5097.98 of the PRC). This will also 
include either recording the site with the NAHC 
or the appropriate Information Center; using an 
open space or conservation zoning designation or 
easement; or recording a reinternment document 
with the county in which the property is located 
(AB 2641). Work may not resume within the no-
work radius until the lead agencies, through 
consultation as appropriate, determine that the 
treatment measures have been completed to their 
Geology and Soils: 
Impact GEO-1: 
MM GEO-1: If paleontological or other 
geologically sensitive resources are identified 
during any phase of project development, the 
construction manager shall cease operation at the 
site of the discovery and immediately notify the 
City of Gridley Public Works. The City shall 
retain a qualified paleontologist to provide an 
evaluation of the find and to prescribe mitigation 
Page | 7 

 

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

If paleontological or other 
geologically sensitive 
resources are identified 
during any phase of 
project development, the 
construction manager 
shall cease operation at 

 

During 
Construction. 

City of Gridley 

During 
Construction. 

Follow proper 
protocol in the 
event of a 
paleontological 
or geologically 
sensitive 
resource 
discovery. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

 
 

MITIGATIONS 

MONITORING AND REPORTING PROGRAM 

City of Gridley Waterline Replacemen  

Project  

Documentation of Compliance 

[Project Applicant/Proponent Responsibility] 
Method of Compliance 
Or Mitigation Action 

Timing of 
Compliance 

 

 

Documentation of Compliance 
[Lead Agency Responsibility] 

Oversight 

Responsibility  

Actions/Reports 

 

Monitoring 
Timing or 
Schedule 

 

 

 

measures to reduce impacts to a less-than-
significant level. In considering any suggested 
mitigation proposed by the consulting 
paleontologist, the City shall determine whether 
avoidance is necessary and feasible in light of 
factors such as the nature of the find, project 
design, costs, land use assumptions, and other 
considerations. If avoidance is unnecessary or 
infeasible, other appropriate measures (e.g., data 
recovery) shall be instituted. Work may proceed 
on other parts of the project site while mitigation 
for paleontological resources is carried out. 
 

the site and notify City of 
Gridley.  
 
The City shall retain a 
qualified paleontologist to 
provide an evaluation of 
the find and to prescribe 
mitigation measures to 
reduce impacts to a less-
than-significant level.  
 
Proper mitigation will be 
determined by the 
paleontologist and the 
City. Work may continue 
in other areas of the 
Project site while 
mitigation is determined.  

 
Source: City of Gridley Waterline Replacement Project IS/MND 

Page | 8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

City of Gridley 

