Gridley City Council – Regular City Council Meeting Agenda 

Monday, July 1st, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

 

 

 

“Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community’s vitality and overall quality of life.  We 

are committed to providing high quality,  cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations.  We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives.” 

 

 
CALL TO ORDER - Mayor Johnson 
ROLL CALL - Recording Secretary 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE – Vice Mayor Williams 
INVOCATION – Pastor Brad Roberts, Calvary Chapel of Gridley 
PROCLAMATIONS – None 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM - Members of the public may address the City Council on 
matters not listed on the agenda.   The City Council may not discuss nor take action on any 
community participation item brought forward by a member of the community.  Comments are 
requested to be limited to three (3) minutes.  

 

CONSENT AGENDA – Items on the Consent Agenda are considered routine and acted upon by one 
motion. Any Council member may request that an item be removed for separate consideration. The 
City Council may only make minor comments; otherwise the item should be removed from the 
Consent Agenda and placed as the first item(s) under “Items for Council Consideration”.  

1. 

2. 

3. 

City Council minutes dated June 17, 2019 

Appointment of Paul Eckert as Finance Director effective April 6, 2019 

Council Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-017:  A Resolution of The City Council of 
The City of Gridley Approving Agreement No. 2CA04403 With the California 
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection and Authorizing the Mayor to Sign the 
Agreement for Services from July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020 

PUBLIC HEARING – None 
ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

4. 

5. 

Interviews of Candidates to fill Planning Commissioner Vacancies 

Council Appointment of Partial Term Councilmember 

CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS - Brief updates from City staff and brief reports on 
conferences, seminars, and meetings attended by the Mayor and City Council members, if any. 
 
POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 

 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 7-1-19  

                    Page 1 of 2 

8/5/2019 
8/5/2019 
8/5/2019 
8/19/2019 

Seating of New Councilmember 
Hilbers Residential Development 
Appointment of Planning Commissioners 
Potential Cessation of Net Metering Program 

 
 
 
 
 
 
CLOSED SESSION – None 
 
ADJOURNMENT – adjourning to the next regularly scheduled meeting on Monday, July 15th, 2019 
NOTE 1: POSTING OF AGENDA- This agenda was posted on the public bulletin board at City Hall at 
or before 6:00 p.m., June 28, 2019, in accordance with Government Code Section 54954.2. This 
agenda along with all attachments is available for public viewing online at www.gridley.ca.us and at 
the Administration counter in City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA. 
 
NOTE 2: REGARDING UNSCHEDULED MATTERS – In accordance with state law, it shall be the policy 
of this Council that no action shall be taken on any item presented during the public forum or on 
unscheduled matters unless the Council, by majority vote, determines that an emergency situation 
exists, or, unless the Council by a two-thirds vote finds that the need to take action arose 
subsequent to the posting of this agenda. 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 7-1-19  

                    Page 2 of 2 

 

 

Gridley City Council – DRAFT City Council Meeting Minutes 

Monday, June 17th, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

 

 

“Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community’s vitality and overall quality of life.  We 

are committed to providing high quality,  cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations.  We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives.” 

 

 
 

Johnson, Torres, Williams, Borges 
None 
None 

 
CALL TO ORDER 
Mayor Johnson called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 
ROLL CALL  
Councilmembers 
 
Present: 
Absent: 
 
Arriving after roll call:  
 
Staff present:   
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Councilmember Borges led the Pledge of Allegiance 
INVOCATION 
No invocation was provided 
PROCLAMATIONS – None 

Paul Eckert, City Administrator 
Tony Galyean, City Attorney 
Al Byers, Police Chief 
Daryl Dye, Utilities Director 
Danny Howard, Electric Supervisor 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM 

Michael Bergmann, 1053 Laurel Street, expressed concern over possible illegal activity taking 
place near his home. 

CONSENT AGENDA  

1. 

2. 

 

City Council minutes dated June 3, 2019 

Approval of Resolution No. 2019-R-014:  A Resolution of The City Council of The City 
of Gridley Adopting Obligations to Reimburse the State Water Board for Project 
Funds Provided for The Gridley Waterline Replacement Project 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 6-17-19  

                    Page 1 of 3 

 
Motion to approve the consent agenda by Councilmember Borges, seconded by Councilmember 
Torres 
 
Motion passed, all in favor 
 
PUBLIC HEARING – None 
ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

3. 

Purchase and Installation of new Vierra Park Playground Equipment 

Recreation Coordinator Trina Leishman, reported to Council detailing the play structures, layout 
and pricing.   

After consideration, Council decided to bring the item back at a later date.  Additional grant 
funding options are still being sought and Council desires to have a Master Plan in place prior to 
installing new play structures. 

4. 

Approve Resolution No. 2019-R-015: A Resolution of The City Council of The City of 
Gridley Establishing The 2019-2020 Appropriations Limit for The City of Gridley and 
Resolution 2019-R-016: A Resolution of The City Council of The City of Gridley 
Adopting A Budget for Fiscal Year 2019-2020   

After a brief review by Administrator Eckert, motion to approve Resolutions No. 2019-R-015 and 
016 by Vice Mayor Williams, seconded by Councilmember Borges. 

ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes:  Johnson, Borges, Torres, Williams 
Motion passed, 4-0 
 

5. 

Council Appointment of Partial Term Councilmember 

Councilmember Borges nominated Quintin Crye, Mayor Johnson seconded. 

ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes:  Johnson, Borges 
Noes: Williams, Torres 
 
Councilmember Torres nominated Brittany Fagundes, Vice Mayor Williams seconded. 
 
ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes:  Williams, Torres 
Noes:  Johnson, Borges 
 
Both motions failed for lack of a majority vote and it was decided to consider the item again at 
the next Council meeting. 
 
CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS  
 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 6-17-19  

                    Page 2 of 3 

 
Mayor Johnson reported on the meeting he attended with the Butte County Mosquito and 
Vector Control District. 
 
Councilmember Torres expressed his appreciation of the orientation he received as a new 
Councilmember and thanked all involved in making it happen.   
 
POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Interview Planning Commissioners (Special Meeting) 
Seating of New Councilmember 
Hilbers Residential Development 
Appointment of Planning Commissioners 
Potential Cessation of Net Metering Program 

7/15/2019 
7/15/2019 
8/5/2019 
8/5/2019 
8/19/2019 

CLOSED SESSION  
 

6. 

Conference with Legal Counsel concerning existing litigation pursuant to 
Government Code 54956.9 – Blackshire vs. City of Gridley, et al, Butte County 
Superior Court Case No. 19CV01639 

Council came out of closed session at 7:43 p.m. with no reportable action. 

ADJOURNMENT 
With no items for further discussion, Council adjourned to the next regularly scheduled meeting 
on Monday, July 1, 2019. 
 
 
_______________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk 
 
 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 6-17-19  

                    Page 3 of 3 

City Council Agenda Item #2 

Staff Report 

July 1, 2019 

Mayor and City Council 

 

 
 
Date: 

To: 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

  

Emergency 

Paul Eckert, City Administrator 

Appointment of Paul Eckert as Finance Director effective April 6, 2019  

From: 
 
Subject: 
 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the Mayor and City Council formally approve the appointment of City 
Administrator Paul Eckert as the City of Gridley Finance Director effective April 6, 2019. 
 
Background  
The City Council determined that City Administrator Paul Eckert would be designated Interim Finance Director 
effective April 6, 2019 during the May 20, 2019 Closed Session.  The purpose of this Staff Report is to formally 
appoint City Administrator Paul Eckert as Finance Director effective April 6, 2019.  Formal appointment is required 
in order to simplify communications with various State and Federal agencies as well as our Auditors.  Combining 
the duties of the City Administrator or City Manager and the Finance Director is not uncommon in small cities and 
is considered to be an appropriate action.  City Administrator Paul Eckert has been employed as a Finance Director 
in two other cities much larger and more complex than Gridley.  The City Council will periodically evaluate the 
new structure and it’s understood that the Council may apply additional changes in the future. 
 
Fiscal Impact 
Appointment of the City Administrator as the Finance Director will result in significant savings to the City.  The 
exact savings will not be known until the Finance Department reorganization is developed and approved by the 
City Council.  No changes in compensation are recommended for the City Administrator as a result of this action.   
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council and City staff are committed to providing the best possible financial practices, the highest 
possible transparency regarding all financial transactions, and are committed to attracting, retaining, and 
developing the most effective, customer focused workforce possible.   
 
Attachment - None 
 

City Council Agenda Item #3 

Staff Report 

July 1, 2019 

Mayor and City Council 

 

Paul Eckert, City Administrator 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

Emergency 

 
 

Date: 

To: 

From: 

Agreement with California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection 

Subject: 
 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests the Mayor and City Council review and adopt the proposed 2019/2020 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) Fire Protection Reimbursement 
Agreement No. 2CA04403 and authorize the Mayor to sign the Agreement. 
 
Background 
The Fire Protection Reimbursement Agreement from CAL FIRE for fiscal year 2019/2020 is ready to sign.  
The amount of this agreement is $931,182.00, consistent with the submitted Fire budget proposal as 
overviewed by Chief Jamie Norton at the May 20th City Council meeting. 
 
Financial Impact  
The fiscal impacts to the City of Gridley General Fund were previously discussed during the FY 2019-20 
Budget Public Hearings and have been incorporated into the City’s Budget. 
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
This recommendation is consistent with our ongoing effort to be responsive and transparent regarding 
all business transactions and financial matters. 
 
Attachments  

•  Resolution No. 2019-R-017 
•  Fire Protection Reimbursement Agreement No. 2CA04403 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-017 

 

 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY APPROVING AGREEMENT NO. 
2CA04403 WITH THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY AND FIRE PROTECTION AND 

AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO SIGN THE AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES FROM  

JULY 1, 2019 TO JUNE 30, 2020 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Bruce Johnson, Mayor of said City of Gridley be and 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing resolution was duly passed and adopted by the 

BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Gridley that said Council does hereby 
approve the agreement with the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection dated 
July 1, 2019.  This agreement provides fire protection services during the State Fiscal year 
(2019/2020). 
 
 
hereby is authorized to sign and execute said agreement on behalf of the City of Gridley. 
 
 
City Council of the City of Gridley at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 1st day of July, 2019, 
by the following vote: 
 
 
AYES:             COUNCIL MEMBERS              
 
NOES:            COUNCIL MEMBERS              
   
ABSENT:        COUNCIL MEMBERS               
 
ABSTAIN:      COUNCIL MEMBERS              
 
 
ATTEST: 
 
______________________ 
Paul Eckert, City Clerk  
 

_______________________ 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

APPROVE: 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COOPERATIVE FIRE PROGRAMS 
FIRE PROTECTION REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT 
LG-1 REV. 01!2017 

AGREEMENT NUMBER 

2CA04403 

REGISTRATION NUMBER: 

1. This Agreement is entered into between the State Agency and the Local Agency named below: 

STATE AGENCY'S NAME 

California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection — (CAL FIRE) 

LOCAL AGENCY'S NAME 

City of Gridley 

2.  The term of this Agreement is: 

July 1, 2019 

through 

June 30, 2020 

3.  The maximum amount of this 

Agreement is: 

$ 931,182.00 

Nine hundred thirty-one thousand, one hundred eighty-two dollars and no cents. 

4.  The parties agree to comply with the terms and conditions of the following exhibits which are by this reference made a 

part of the Agreement. 

4 

2 

7 

9 

1 

pages 

pages 

pages 

pages 

pages 

California Department of Genera! 

Services Use Only 

Exhibit A —Scope of Work —Includes page 2 (contact page) in count for Exhibit A 

Exhibit B —Budget Detail and Payment Provisions 

Exhibit C —General Terms and Conditions 

Exhibit D —Additional Provisions 

Exhibit E —Description of Other Services 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this 

ment  has been executed by the parties hereto. 

LOCAL AGENCY 

LOCAL AGENCY'S NAME 
City of Gridley 
BY (Authorized Signature) 

PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING 
Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

ADDRESS 
685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

DATE SIGNED(Do not type) 

AGENCY NAME 
California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection 

STATE OF CALIFORNIA 

BY (Authorized Signature) 

DATE SIGNED(Do not type) 

PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF PERSON SIGNING 
Don Gordon, Assistant Deputy Director, Cooperative Fire Protection, Training &Safety 

ADDRESS P.O. Box 944246, Sacramento, CA 94244-2460 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 2 

COOPERATIVE FIRE PROGRAMS 

FIRE PROTECTION REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT 

EXHIBIT A 

_..__ _ 

_ 
The project representatives during the term of this agreement wí11 be: 

__ 

- 

_-- 

CAL FIRE Unit Chief: 

David Hawks 

Local Agency: 

City of Gridley 

Name: 

Phone: 

Fax: 

Butte Unít 

(530) 538-7111 

(530) 538-7401 

Name: 

Phone: 

Fax: 

Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

(530) 846-5695 

(530} 846-3229 

All required correspondence shall be sent through U.S. Postal Service by certified mail and directed to: 

CAL FIRE Unit Chief: 

David Hawks 

Local Agency: 

City of Gridley 

Section/Unit: 

Attention: 

Address: 

Phone: 

Fax: 

Support Services 

Section/Unit: 

Administration 

Lisa Koehler 

Attention: 

Paul Eckert 

176 Nelson Avenue 

Address: 

(530) 538-7111 

(530) 538-7401 

Phone: 

Fax: 

685 Kentucky Street 
Gridley, CA 95948 
(530) 846-5695 

(530) 846-3229 

Send an additional copy of all correspondence to: 

CAL FIRE 
Cooperative Fire Services 
P.O. Box 944246 
Sacramento, CA 94244-2460 

AUTHORIZATION 

As used herein, Director shall mean Director of CAL FIRE. This agreement, its terms and conditions 
are authorized under the Public Resources Code Sections 4141, 4142, 4143 and 4144, as applicable. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Pave No.: 3 

EXHIBIT A 

SCOPE OF WORK 

Under Public Resources Code Section 4114 and other provisions of law, STATE maintains fire 
prevention and fire suppression forces including the necessary equipment, personnel, and facilities 
required to prevent and extinguish forest fires. 
The purpose of this agreement is to provide mutually advantageous fire and emergency services 
through an effective consolidated organization, wherein the STATE is primarily financially responsible 
for protecting natural resources from vegetation fires and the LOCAL AGENCY is primarily financially 
responsible for protecting life and property from fires and other emergencies. The LOCAL AGENCY 
shall have sole authority to establish the fire protection organization and structure needed to meet 
the determined level of service. This level of service may be based on the LOCAL AGENCY 
governing board's established fiscal parameters and assessment of risks and hazards. LOCAL 
AGENCY personnel providing services under this agreement may include any one or a combination 
of the following: regular employees, persons temporarily employed and commonly known as 
volunteers, paid-call firefighters, or others temporarily employed to perform any emergency work or 
emergency service including, but not limited to fire prevention, fire suppression and emergency 
medical response. 
To comply with the STATE's mandate for full cost recovery of goods and services províded for others, 
the LOCAL AGENCY shall be responsible for all STATE costs, both direct and indirect, required to 
execute the terms of this agreement. These costs shall include, but not be limited to: required training 
and associated post coverage, employee uniform and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) costs. 

1. FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE STATE 

STATE provides a modern, full service fire protection and emergency incident management agency 
that provides comprehensive fire protection and other emergency incident response. STATE 
designs regional fire protection solutions for urban and rural communities by efficiently utilizing all 
emergency protection resources. Regional solutions provide the most effective method of 
protecting the citizens of California at local, county and state levels. 
Fire protection services to be provided by STATE under this agreement shall include the fallowing: 
(check boxes below that apply) 
® 
1) Emergency Fire Protection, Medical and Rescue Response: services include 
commercial, residential, and wildland fire protection, prevention and investigation; hazardous 
materials incident response; emergency vehicle extrication; hazardous conditions response 
(flooding, downed power lines, earthquake, terrorist incident, etc.); emergency medical and rescue 
response; and public service assistance. Also included are management support services that 
include fire department administration, training and safety, personnel, finance and logistical 
support. 
® 
2) Basic Life Support Services: emergency medical technician (EMT) level emergency 
medical response providing first aid, basic life support (BLS), airway management, administration 
of oxygen, bleeding control, and life support system stabilization until patients are transported to 
the nearest emergency care facility. 
q 
3) Advanced Life Support Services: paramedic level emergency medical response 
providing early advanced airway management, intravenous drug therapy, and life support system 
stabilization until patients are transported to the nearest emergency care facility. 
® 
4) Dispatch Services: provide fire department 9-1-1 emergency dispatch by CAL FIRE 
Fire/Emergency Command Center (ECC). CAL FIRE will be responsible for fire/emergency 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 4 

dispatching emergency resource units covered under this agreement. The CAL FIRE ECC is 
staffed with a Battalion Chief, three or more Fire Captains and Communications Operators to 
provide 24/7  year-round coverage. There is always an officer of Captain rank or higher to serve as 
the shift supervisor and command officer. CAL FIRE uses an integrated Computer Aided Dispatch 
(CAD) system using the latest technology, to direct the closest available resources to all emergency 
incidents. 

q 
5) Fire Code Inspection, Prevention and Enforcement Services: CAL FIRE has staff Fire 
Inspectors serving under the direction of the LOCAL AGENCY Fire Marshal to provide services to 
the area covered by this agreement. Fire Code Enforcement will normally be available five days 
per week, with emergency or scheduled enforcement inspections available seven days per week. 
Fire Prevention and Investigation services will be provided by CAL FIRE Prevention Officers trained 
in arson, commercial, and wildland fire investigation. Officers are available by appointment for site 
visits and consultations. Officers are trained at CAL FIRE's Peace Officer Standard Training 
(POST) certified law enforcement training academy and they cooperate effectively with all local, 
state and federal law enforcement agencies. 

q 
6) Land Use/ Pre-Fire Planning Services —CAL FIRE staff will provide community land use 
planning, administration of Pre-Fire project work, including community outreach, development of 
community education programs, project quality control, maintenance of project records and 
submittal of progress reports, completion of required environmental documentation, acquisition of 
required permits and completion of other associated administrative duties. 

q 
hereto and made a part of this agreement) 

7) Disaster planning services (listed in Exhibit E, Description of Other Services, attached 

8) Specific service descriptions and staffing coverage, by station (listed in Exhibit E, 

® 
Description of Other Services, attached hereto and made a part of this agreement) 
q 

9) Extended Fire Protection Service Availability  (Amador)  

2. ADMINISTRATION 

Under the requirements of California Public Resources Code Section 4114 and other provisions of 
law, STATE maintains fire prevention and firefighting services as outlined in Exhibit D, Schedule B of 
this agreement. 

A.  Director shall select and employ a Region Chief who shall, under the direction of the 
Director/Chief Deputy Director, manage all aspects of fire prevention and fire protection 
services and forestry-related programs. 

B.  Director will select and employ a Unit Chief who shall, under the supervision and direction of 
Director/Region Chief or a lawful representative, have charge of the organization described 
in Exhibit D, Schedules A, B and C included hereto and made a part of this agreement. 

C.  LOCAL AGENCY shall appoint the Unit Chief as the LOCAL AGENCY Fire Chief for all 
Emergency Fire Protection, Medical and Rescue Response Agreements, pursuant to 
applicable statutory authority. The Unit Chief may delegate this responsibility to qualified staff. 
D.  The Unit Chief may dispatch personnel and equipment listed in Exhibit D, Schedules A, B and 
C from the assigned station or location under guidelines established by LOCAL AGENCY and 
approved by STATE. Personnel and/or equipment listed in Exhibit D, Schedule B may be 
dispatched at the sole discretion of STATE. 

E.  The Unit Chief shall exercise professional judgment consistent with STATE policy and his or 
her employment by STATE in authorizing or making any assignments to emergencies and 
other responses, including assignments made in response to requests for mutual aid. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Pale No.: 5 

F.  Except as may be otherwise provided for in this agreement, STATE shall not incur any 
obligation on the part of LOCAL AGENCY to pay for any labor, materials, supplies or services 
beyond the total set forth in the respective Exhibit D, Schedules A and C, as to the services 
to be rendered pursuant to each Schedule. 

G. Nothing herein shall alter or amend or be construed to alter or amend any Collective 
Bargaining Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding between the State of California and 
its employees under the State Employer-Employee Relations Act. 

3.  SUPPRESSION COST RECOVERY 

As provided in Health and Safety Code (H&SC) Section 13009, STATE may bring an action for 
collection of suppression costs of any fire caused by negligence, violation of law, or failure to correct 
noticed fire safety violations. When using LOCAL AGENCY equipment and personnel under the 
terms of this agreement, STATE may, at the request of LOCAL AGENCY, bring such an action for 
collection of costs incurred by LOCAL AGENCY. In such a case LOCAL AGENCY appoints and 
designates STATE as its agent in said collection proceedings. In the event of recovery, STATE shall 
deduct fees and litigation costs in a proportional percentage amount based on verifiable and justifiable 
suppression costs for the fire at issue. These recovery costs are for services provided which are 
beyond the scope of those covered by the local government administrative fee. 
In all such instances, STATE shall give timely notice of the possible application of H&SC Section 
13009 to the representative designated by LOCAL AGENCY. 

4. MUTUAL AID 

When rendering mutual aid or assistance as authorized in H&SC Sections 13050 and 13054, STATE 
may, at the request of LOCAL AGENCY, demand payment of charges and seek reimbursement of 
LOCAL AGENCY costs for personnel, equipment and operating expenses as funded herein, under 
authority given by H&SC Sections 13051 and 13054. STATE, in seeking said reimbursement 
pursuant to such request of LOCAL AGENCY, shall represent LOCAL AGENCY by following the 
procedures set forth in H&SC Section 13052. Any recovery of LOCAL AGENCY costs, less 
expenses, shall be paid or credited to LOCAL AGENCY, as directed by LOCAL AGENCY. 
In all such instances, STATE shall give timely notice of the possible application of H&SC Sections 
13051 and 13054 to the officer designated by LOCAL AGENCY. 

5. PROPERTY PURCHASE AND ACCOUNTING 

LOCAL AGENCY shall be responsible for all costs associated with property required by personnel to 
carry out this agreement. Employee uniform costs will be assessed to the LOCAL AGENCY through 
the agreement billing process. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) costs shall be the responsibility 
of the LOCAL AGENCY. By mutual agreement, PPE meeting the minimum specifications established 
by the STATE may be purchased directly by the LOCAL AGENCY. Alternately, the STATE will supply 
all PPE and the LOCAL AGENCY will be billed for costs incurred. 
All property provided by LOCAL AGENCY and by STATE for the purpose of providing fire protection 
services shall be marked and accounted for by the Unit Chief in such a manner as to conform to the 
regulations, if any, established by the parties for the segregation, care, and use of the respective 
properties. 

BUDGET DETAIL AND PAYMENT PROVISIONS 

EXHIBIT B 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 6 

PAYMENT FOR SERVICES 

A. 

B. 

C. 

LOCAL AGENCY shall pay STATE actual cost for fire protection services pursuant to 
this agreement an amount not to exceed that set forth in Exhibit D, Schedule A for each 
fiscal year. STATE shall prepare an Exhibit D, Schedule A each year, which shall be 
the basis for payment for the entire fiscal year for which services are provided. 

Any other funds designated by LOCAL AGENCY to be expended under the supervision 
of or for use by a Unit Chief for fire protection services shall be set forth in Exhibit D, 
Schedule C. This clause shall not limit the right of LOCAL AGENCY to make additional 
expenditures, whether under Exhibit D, Schedule C or otherwise. 

STATE shall invoice LOCAL AGENCY for the cost of fire protection services on a 
quarterly basis as follows: 

1)  For actual services rendered by STATE during the period of July 1 through 
September 30, by an invoice filed with LOCAL AGENCY on or after December 10. 

2)  For actual services rendered by STATE during the period October 1 through 
December 31, by an invoice filed with LOCAL AGENCY on or after December 31. 

3)  For actual services rendered by STATE during the period January 1 through March 

31, by an invoice filed with LOCAL AGENCY on or after March 31. 

4)  For the estimated cost of services during the period April 1 through June 30, by an 

invoice filed in advance with LOCAL AGENCY on or 

after March 1. 

5)  A final statement shall be filed with LOCAL AGENCY by October 1 following the 
close of the fiscal year, reconciling the payments made by LOCAL AGENCY with 
the cost of the actual services rendered by STATE and including any other costs 
as provided herein, giving credit for all payments made by LOCAL AGENCY and 
claiming the balance due to STATE, if any, or refunding to LOCAL AGENCY the 
amount of any overpayment. 

6)  All payments by LOCAL AGENCY shall be made within thirty (30) days of receipt 
of invoice from STATE, or within thirty (30) days after the filing dates specified 
above, whichever is later. 

7~ The STATE reserves the right to adjust the frequency of billing and payment to a 

monthly cycle with a thirty (30) day written notice to the LOCAL AGENCY when: 

a.  The Director predicts a cash flow shortage, or 

b.  When determined by the Region Chief, after consulting with the Unit Chief and 
the LOCAL AGENCY Contract Administrator, that the LOCAL AGENCY may 
not have the financial ability to support the contract at the contract level. 

D. 

Invoices shall include actual or estimated costs as provided herein of salaries and 
employee benefits for those personnel employed, charges for operating expenses and 
equipment and the administrative charge in accordance with Exhibit D, Schedule A. 
When "contractual rates" are indicated, the rate shall be based on an average salary 
plus all benefits. "Contractual rates" means an all-inclusive rate established in Exhibit 
D, Schedule A for total costs to STATE, per specified position, for 24-hour fire protection 
services during the period covered. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 7 

E. 

STATE shall credit the LOCAL AGENCY, or cover behind at no cost, for the costs of 
Non-post (e.g. Fire Marshal, Training Officer, etc.) positions and equipment assigned to 
STATE responsibility fires or other STATE funded emergency incidents. The STATE 
shall notify the LOCAL AGENCY when this occurs. 

COST OF OPERATING AND MAINTAINING EQUIPMENT AND PROPERTY 

2. 
The cost of maintaining, operating, and replacing any and all property and equipment, real or 
personal, furnished by the parties hereto for fire protection purposes, shall be borne by the party 
owning or furnishing such property or equipment unless otherwise provided for herein or by separate 
written agreement. 

3.  BUDGET CONTINGENCY CLAUSE 

A. If the LOCAL AGENCY's governing authority does not appropriate sufficient funds for the 
current year or any subsequent years covered under this Agreement, which results in an 
inability to pay the STATE for the services specified in this Agreement, the LOCAL AGENCY 
shall promptly notify the STATE and this Agreement will terminate pursuant to the notice 
periods required herein. 

B. If funding for any fiscal year is reduced or deleted by the LOCAL AGENCY for purposes of 
this program, the LOCAL AGENCY shall promptly notify the STATE, and the STATE shall 
have the option to either cancel this Agreement with no liability occurring to the STATE, or 
offer an agreement amendment to LOCAL AGENCY to reflect the reduced amount, 
pursuant to the notice terms herein. 

C. If the STATE Budget Act does not appropriate sufficient funds to provide the services for 
the current year or any subsequent years covered under this Agreement, which results in 
an inability to provide the services specified in this Agreement to the LOCAL AGENCY, the 
STATE shall promptly notify the LOCAL AGENCY, and this Agreement will terminate 
pursuant to the notice periods required herein. 

D. If funding for any fiscal year is reduced or deleted by the STATE Budget Act for purposes 
of this program, the STATE shall promptly notify the LOCAL AGENCY, and the LOCAL 
AGENCY shall have the option to either cancel this Agreement with no liability occurring to 
the LOCAL AGENCY, or offer an agreement amendment to LOCAL AGENCY to reflect the 
reduced services, pursuant to the notice terms herein. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions in paragraphs A and B above, the LOCAL 
AGENCY shall remain responsible for payment for all services actually rendered by the 
STATE under this Agreement regardless of LOCAL AGENCY funding being reduced, 
deleted or not otherwise appropriated for this program. The LOCAL AGENCY shall 
promptly notify the STATE in writing of any budgetary changes that would impact this 
Agreement. 

F. LOCAL AGENCY and STATE agree that this Budget Contingency Clause shall not relieve 
or excuse either party from its obligations) to provide timely notice as may be required 
elsewhere in this Agreement. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 8 

EXHIBIT C 

GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 

1.  APPROVAL:  This Agreement is of no force or effect until signed by both parties and approved 
by the Department of General Services, if required. STATE will not commence performance 
until such approval has been obtained. 

2.  AMENDMENT:  This agreement may be amended by mutual consent of LOCAL AGENCY and 
STATE. No amendment or variation of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless made 
in writing, signed by the parties and approved as required. No oral understanding or Agreement 
not incorporated in the Agreement is binding on any of the parties. 
If during the term of this agreement LOCAL AGENCY shall desire a reduction in STATE civil 
service employees assigned to the organization provided for in Exhibit D, Schedule A, LOCAL 
AGENCY shall provide 120 days written notice of the requested reduction. Notification shall 
include the following: (1) The total amount of reduction; (2) The firm effective date of the 
reduction; and (3) The number of employees, by classification, affected by a reduction. If such 
notice is not provided, LOCAL AGENCY shall reimburse STATE for relocation costs incurred 
by STATE as a result of the reduction. Personnel reductions resulting solely from an increase 
in STATE employee salaries or STATE expenses occurring after sïgning this agreement and 
set forth in Exhibit D, Schedule A to this agreement shall not be subject to relocation expense 
reimbursement by LOCAL AGENCY. 
If during the term of this agreement costs to LOCAL AGENCY set forth in any Exhibit D, Schedule 
A to this agreement increase and LOCAL AGENCY, in ïts sole discretion, determines it cannot 
meet such increase without reducing services provided by STATE, LOCAL AGENCY shall within 
one hundred twenty (120) days of receipt of such Schedule notify STATE and designate which 
adjustments shall be made to bring costs to the necessary level. If such designation is not 
received by STATE within the period specified, STATE shall reduce services in its sole discretion 
to permit continued operation within available funds. 

3.  ASSIGNMENT:  This Agreement is not assignable by the LOCAL AGENCY either in whole or in 

part, without the consent of the STATE in the form of a formal written amendment. 

4.  EXTENSION OF AGREEMENT: 

A. One year prior to the date of expiration of this agreement, LOCAL AGENCY shall give 
STATE written notice of whether LOCAL AGENCY will extend or enter into a new agreement 
with STATE for fire protection services and, if so, whether LOCAL AGENCY intends to 
change the level of fire protection services from that provided by this agreement. If this 
agreement is executed with less than one year remaining on the term of the agreement, 
LOCAL AGENCY shall provide this written notice at the time it signs the agreement and the 
one year notice requirement shall not apply. 

B. If LOCAL AGENCY fails to provide the notice, as defined above in (A), STATE shall have 
the option to extend this agreement for a period of up to one year from the original termination 
date and to continue providing services at the same or reduced level as STATE determines 
would be appropriate during the extended period of this agreement. Six months prior to the 
date of expiration of this agreement, or any extension hereof, STATE shall give written notice 
to LOCAL AGENCY of any extension of this agreement and any change ín the level of fire 
protection services STATE will provide during the extended period of this agreement. 
Services provided and obligations.. incurred by STATE during an extended period shall be 
accepted by LOCAL AGENCY as services and obligations under the terms of this 
agreement. 

C. The cost of services provided by STATE during the extended period shall be based upon 
the amounts that would have been charged LOCAL AGENCY during the fiscal year in which 
the extended period falls had the agreement been extended pursuant hereto. Payment by 
LOCAL AGENCY for services rendered by STATE during the extended period shall be as 
provided in Exhibit B, Section 1, B of this agreement. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 9 

5.  AUDIT:  STATE, including the Department of General Services and the Bureau of State Audits, 
and LOCAL AGENCY agree that their designated representative shall have the right to review 
and to copy any records and supporting documentation of the other party hereto, pertaining to 
the performance of this agreement. STATE and LOCAL AGENCY agree to maintain such 
records for possible audit for a minimum of three (3) years after final payment, unless a longer 
period of records retention is stipulated, and to allow the auditors) of the other party access to 
such records during normal business hours and to allow interviews of any employees who might 
reasonably have information related to such records. STATE and LOCAL AGENCY agree to a 
similar right to audit records and interview staff in any subcontract related to performance of 
this Agreement. (Gov. Code §8546.7, Pub. Contract Code §10115 et seq., CCR Title 2, Section 
1896). 

6.  INDEMNIFICATION:  Each party, to the extent permitted bylaw, agrees to indemnify, defend and 
save harmless the other party, its officers, agents and employees from (1) any and all claims for 
economic losses accruing or resulting to any and all contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, 
laborers and any other person, firm, or corporation furnishing or supplying work services, 
materials or supplies to that party and (2) from any and all claims and losses accruing or resulting 
to any person, firm or corporation who may be injured or damaged by that party, in the 
performance of any activities of that party under this agreement, except where such injury or 
damage arose from the sole negligence or willful misconduct attributable to the other party or 
from acts not within the scope of duties to be performed pursuant to this agreement; and (3) each 
party shall be responsible for any and all claims that may arise from the behavior and/or 
performance of its respective employees during and in the course of their employment to this 
cooperative agreement. 

7.  DISPUTES:  LOCAL AGENCY shall select and appoint a "Contract Administrator" who shall, 
under the supervision and direction of LOCAL AGENCY, be available for contract resolution or 
policy intervention with the STATE's Region Chief when, upon determination by the designated 
STATE representative, the Unit Chief acting as LOCAL AGENCY's Fire Chief under this 
agreement faces a situation in which a decision to serve the interest of LOCAL AGENCY has 
the potential to conflict with STATE interest or policy. Any dispute concerning a question of fact 
arising under the terms of this agreement which is not disposed of within a reasonable period 
of time by the LOCAL AGENCY and STATE employees normally responsible for the 
administration of this agreement shall be brought to the attention of the CAL FIRE Director or 
designee and the Chief Executive Officer (or designated representative) of the LOCAL 
AGENCY forjoint resolution. For purposes of this provision, a "reasonable period of time" shall 
be ten (10) calendar days or less. STATE and LOCAL AGENCY agree to continue with the 
responsibilities under this Agreement during any dispute. 

8.  TERMINATION FOR CAUSE/CANCELLATION: 

A. If LOCAL AGENCY fails to remit payments in accordance with any part of this agreement, 
STATE may terminate this agreement and all related services upon 60 days written notice to 
LOCAL AGENCY. Termination of this agreement does not relieve LOCAL AGENCY from 
providing STATE full compensation in accordance with terms of this agreement for services 
actually rendered by STATE pursuant to this agreement. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 10 

B. This agreement may be cancelled at the option of either STATE or LOCAL AGENCY at any 
time during its term, with or without cause, on giving one year's written notice to the other 
party. Either LOCAL AGENCY or STATE electing to cancel this agreement shall give one 
year's written notice to the other party prior to cancellation. 

9.  INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:  Unless otherwise provided in this agreement LOCAL 
AGENCY and the agents and employees of LOCAL AGENCY, in the performance of this 
Agreement, shall act in an independent capacity and not as officers or employees or agents of 
the STATE. 

10. NON-DISCRIMINATION CLAUSE:  During the performance of this agreement, LOCAL 
AGENCY shall be an equal opportunity employer and shall not unlawfully discrimïnate, harass, 
or allow harassment against any employee or applicant for employment because of sex, race, 
color, ancestry, religious creed, national origin, physical disability (including HIV and AIDS) 
mental disability, medical condition (e.g.cancer), age (over 40), marital status, denial of family 
care leave, veteran status, sexual orientation, and sexual identity. LOCAL AGENCY shall insure 
that the evaluation and treatment of their employees and applicants for employment are free 
from such discrimination and harassment. LOCAL AGENCY shall comply with the provisions 
of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov. Code §12990 (a-f) et seq.) and the applicable 
regulations promulgated thereunder (California Code of Regulations, Title 2, Section 7285 et 
seq.). The applicable regulations of the Fair Employment and Housing Commission 
implementing Government Code Section 12990 (a-f), set forth ín Chapter 5 of Division 4 of Title 
2 of the California Code of Regulations, are incorporated into this Agreement by reference and 
made a part hereof as if set forth in full. LOCAL AGENCY shall give written notice of their 
obligations under this clause to labor organizations with which they have a collective bargaining 
or other Agreement. 
In addition, LOCAL AGENCY acknowledges that it has obligations relating to ethics, Equal 
Employment Opportunity (EEO), the Fire Fighter's Bill of Rights Act (FFBOR), and the Peace 
Officer's Bill of Rights Act (POBOR). LOCAL AGENCY shall ensure that its employees comply 
with all the legal obligations relating to these areas. LOCAL AGENCY shall ensure that its 
employees are provided appropriate training. 

11. TIMELINESS:  Time is of the essence in the performance of this agreement. 
12. COMPENSATION:  The consideration to be paid STATE, as provided herein, shall be in 
compensation for all of STATE's expenses incurred in the performance hereof, including travel, 
per Diem, and taxes, unless otherwise expressly so provided. 

13. GOVERNING LAW:  This agreement is governed by and shall be interpreted in accordance with 

the laws of the State of California. 

14. CHILD SUPPORT COMPLIANCE ACT:  "For any Agreement in excess of $100,000, the LOCAL 

AGENCY acknowledges in accordance with Public Contract Code 7110, that: 
A.  The LOCAL AGENCY recognizes the importance of child and family support obligations and 
shall fully comply with all applicable state and federal laws relating to child and family support 
enforcement, including, but not limited to, disclosure of information and compliance with 
earnings assignment orders, as provided in Chapter 8 (commencing with section 5200) of 
Part 5 of Division 9 of the Family Code; and 

B.  The LOCAL AGENCY, to the best of its knowledge is fully complying with the earnings 
assignment orders of all employees and is providing the names of all new employees to the 
New Hire Registry maintained by the California Employment Development Department." 

15.  UNENFORCEABLE PROVISION:  In the event that any provision of this Agreement is 
unenforceable or held to be unenforceable, then the parties agree that all other provisions of 
this Agreement have force and effect and shall not be affected thereby. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 11 

16.  COMPLIANCE WITH THE HEALTH INSURANCE PORTABILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY 

ACT (HIPAA) 
The STATE and LOCAL AGENCY have a responsibility to comply with the provisions of the 1996 
Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and the 2001 State Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Implementation Act. HIPAA provisions become 
applicable once the association and relationships of the health care providers are determined by 
the LOCAL AGENCY. It is the LOCAL AGENCY'S responsibility to determine their status as a 
"covered entity" and the relationships of personnel as "health care providers", "health care 
clearinghouse", "hybrid entities", business associates", or "trading partners". STATE personnel 
assigned to fill the LOCAL AGENCY'S positions within this Agreement, and their supervisors, 
may fall under the requirements of HIPAA based on the LOCAL AGENCY'S status. It is the 
LOCAL AGENCY'S responsibility to identify, notify, train, and provide all necessary policy and 
procedures to the STATE personnel that fall under HIPAA requirements so that they can comply 
with the required security and privacy standards of the act. 

17. LIABILITY INSURANCE 

The STATE and LOCAL AGENCY shall each provide proof of insurance in a form acceptable 
to the other party at no cost one to the other, to cover all services provided and use of local 
government facilities covered by this agreement. If LOCAL AGENCY is insured and/or 
self-insured in whole or in part for any losses, LOCAL AGENCY shall provide a completed 
Certification of Self Insurance (Exhibit D, Schedule E) or certificate of insurance, executed by 
a duly authorized officer of LOCAL AGENCY. Upon request of LOCAL AGENCY the STATE 
shall provide a letter from DGS, Office Risk and Insurance Management executed by a duly 
authorized officer of STATE. If commercially insured in whole or in part, a certificate of such 
coverage executed by the insurer or its authorized representative shall be provided. 
Said commercial insurance or self-insurance coverage of the LOCAL AGENCY shall include 
the following: 
A.  Fire protection and emergency services -Any commercial insurance shall provide at least 

general liability for $5,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence. 

B.  Dispatch services —Any commercial insurance shall provide at least general liability for 

$1,000,000 combined single limit per occurrence. 

C.  The CAL FIRE, State of California, its officers, agents, employees, and servants are included 

as additional insured's for purposes of this contract. 

D.  The STATE shall receive thirty (30) days prior written notice of any cancellation or change 

to the policy at the addresses listed on page 2 of this agreement. 

18.  WORKERS COMPENSATION:  (only applïes where local government employees/volunteers are 
supervised by CAL FIRE, as listed in Exhibit D Schedule C. STATE contract employees' workers 
compensation is included as part of the contract personnel benefit rate). 
A.  Workers' Compensation and related benefits for those persons, whose use or employment 
is contemplated herein, shall be provided in the manner prescribed by California Labor 
Codes, State Interagency Agreements and other related laws, rules, insurance policies, 
collective bargaining agreements, and memorandums of understanding. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 12 

B.  The STATE Unit Chief administering the organization provided for in this agreement shall 
not use, dispatch or direct any non STATE employees, on any work which is deemed to 
be the responsibility of LOCAL AGENCY, unless and until LOCAL AGENCY provides for 
Workers' Compensation benefits at no cost to STATE. In the event STATE is held liable, 
in whole or in part, for the payment of any Worker's Compensation claim or award arising 
from the injury or death of any such worker, LOCAL AGENCY agrees to compensate 
STATE for the full amount of such liability. 

C.  The STATE /LOCAL AGENCY shall receive proof of Worker's Compensation coverage 
and shall be notifiéd of any cancellation and change of coverage at the addresses listed in 
Section 1. 

19.  CONFLICT OF INTEREST:  LOCAL AGENCY needs to be aware of the following provisions 
regarding current orformer state employees. If LOCAL AGENCY has any questions on the status 
of any person rendering services or involved with the Agreement, the STATE must be contacted 
immediately for clarification. 

Current State Employees (Public Contract Code §10410): 

1)  No officer or employee shall engage in any employment, activity or enterprise from which the 
officer or employee receives compensation or has a financial interest and which is sponsored 
or funded by any state agency, unless the employment, activity or enterprise is required as a 
condition of regular state employment. 

2)  No officer or employee shall contract on his or her own behalf as an independent contractor 

with any state agency to provide goods or services. 

Former State Employees (Public Contract Code §10411): 

1) For the two-year period from the date he or she left state employment, no former state officer 
or employee may enter into a contract in which he or she engaged in any of the negotiations, 
transactions, planning, arrangements or any part of the decisïon-making process relevant to 
the contract while employed in any capacity by any state agency. 

2} For the twelve-month period from the date he or she left state employment, no former state 
officer or employee may enter into a contract wíth any state agency if he or she was employed 
by that state agency in apolicy-making position in the same general subject area as the 
proposed contract within the 12-month period prior to his or her leaving state service. 

If LOCAL AGENCY violates any provisions of above paragraphs, such action by LOCAL 
AGENCY shall render this Agreement void. (Public Contract Code §10420) 

Members of boards and commissions are exempt from this section if they do not receive 
payment other than payment of each meeting of the board or commission, payment for 
preparatory time and payment for per diem. (Public Contract Code §10430 (e)) 

20.  LABOR CODEiWORKERS' COMPENSATION:  LOCAL AGENCY needs to be aware of the 
provisions which require every employer to be insured against liability for Worker's Compensation 
or to undertake self-insurance in accordance with the provisions, and LOCAL AGENCY affirms 
to comply with such provisions before commencing the performance of the work of this 
Agreement. (Labor Code Section 3700) 

21.  AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT:  LOCAL AGENCY assures the State that it complies 
with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, which prohibits discrimination on the basis 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 13 

of disability, as well as all applicable regulations and guidelines issued pursuant to the ADA. (42 
U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) 

22. LOCAL AGENCY NAME CHANGE:  An amendment is required to change the LOCAL 
AGENCY'S name as listed on this Agreement, Upon receipt of legal documentation of the name 
change the STATE will process the amendment. Payment of invoices presented with a new 
name cannot be paid prior to approval of said amendment. 

23. RESOLUTION:  A county, city, district, or other local public body must provide the STATE with a 
copy of a resolution, order, motion, or ordinance of the local governing body which by law has 
authority to enter into an agreement, authorizing execution of the agreement. 

24. AIR OR WATER POLLUTION VIOLATION:  Under the State laws, the LOCAL AGENCY shall 
not be: (1) in violation of any order or resolution not subject to review promulgated by the State 
Air Resources Board or an air pollution control district; (2) subject to cease and desist order not 
subject to review issued pursuant to Section 13301 of the Water Code for violation of waste 
discharge requirements or discharge prohibitïons; or (3) finally determined to be in violation of 
provisions of federal law relating to air or water pollution. 

25. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.  STATE certifies its compliance with applicable federal and State 
hiring requirements for persons with disabilities, and is deemed by LOCAL AGENCY to be in 
compliance with the provisions of LOCAL AGENCY'S Affirmative Action Program for Vendors. 

26. DRUG AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE.  As a material condition of this Agreement, 
STATE agrees that it and its employees, while performing service for LOCAL AGENCY, on 
LOCAL AGENCY property, or while using LOCAL AGENCY equipment, shall comply with 
STATE's Employee Rules of Conduct as they relate to the possession, use, or consumption of 
drugs and alcohol. 

27. ZERO TOLERANCE FOR FRAUDULENT CONDUCT IN LOCAL AGENCY SERVICES. 
STATE shall comply with any applicable "Zero Tolerance for Fraudulent Conduct in LOCAL 
AGENCY Services." There shall be "Zero Tolerance" for fraud committed by contractors in the 
administration of LOCAL AGENCY programs and the provision of LOCAL AGENCY services. 
Upon proven instances of fraud committed by the STATE in connection with performance under 
the Agreement, the Agreement may be terminated consistent with the termination for 
cause/cancellation term, Exhibit C, section 8, subsection B, of Cooperative Fire Programs Fire 
Protection Reimbursement Agreement, LG-1, between the California Department of Forestry 
and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) and the LOCAL AGENCY. 

28. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  "Confidential information" means information designated by 
CAL FIRE and/or the LOCAL AGENCY disclosure of which is restricted, prohibited or privileged 
by State and federal law. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information 
exempt from disclosure under the California Public Records Act (Government Code Sections 
6250 et seq.) Confidential Information includes but is not limited to all records as defined in 
Government Code section 6252 as well as verbal communication of Confidential Information. 
Any exchange of Confidential Information between parties shall not constitute a "waiver" of any 
exemption pursuant to Government Code section 6254.5 

CAL FIRE and LOCAL AGENCY personnel allowed access to information designated as 
Confidential Information shall be limited to those persons with a demonstrable business need 
for such access. CAL FIRE and LOCAL AGENCY agree to provide a list of authorized personnel 
in writing as required by Government Code section 6254.5(e). CAL FIRE and the LOCAL 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Pave No.: 14 

AGENCY agree to take all necessary measures to protect Confidential Information and shall 
impose all the requirements of this Agreement on all of their respective officers, employees and 
agents with regards to access to the Confidential Information. A Party to this Contract who 
experiences a security breach involving Confidential Information covered by this Contract, 
agrees to promptly notify the other Party of such breach 

29.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT:  This agreement contains the whole agreement between the Parties. It 

cancels and supersedes any previous agreement for the same or similar services. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 15 

EXHIBIT D 

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS 

EXCISE TAX: State of California is exempt from federal excise taxes, and no payment will be made 
for any taxes levied on employees' wages. STATE will pay any applicable State of California or 
local sales or use taxes on the services rendered or equipment or parts supplied pursuant to this 
agreement. The STATE may pay any applicable sales and use tax imposed by another state. 

Schedules 

The following Schedules are included as part of this agreement (check boxes if they apply): 

® 

® 

q 

® 

A. Fiscal Dïsplay, PRC 4142 AND/OR PRC 4144  -STATE provided LOCAL 
AGENCY funded fire protection services. STATE-owned vehicles shall be operated 
and maintained in accordance with policies of STATE at rates listed in Exhibit D, 
Schedule A. 

B. STATE Funded Resource - A listing of personnel, crews and major facilities of the 
STATE overlapping or adjacent to the local agency area that may form a reciprocal 
part of this agreement. 

C. LOCAL AGENCY Provided Local Funded Resources -  A listing of services, 
personnel, equipment and expenses, which are paid directly by the local agency, 
but which are under the supervision of the Unit Chief. 

D. LOCAL AGENCY Owned STATE Maintained Vehicles  -Vehicle information 
pertaining to maintenance responsibilities and procedures for locàl agency-owned 
vehicles that may be a part of the agreement. 

LOCAL AGENCY-owned firefighting vehicles shall meet and be maintained to meet minimum 
safety standards set forth in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations; and Titles 8 and 13, 
California Code of Regulations. 

LOCAL AGENCY-owned vehicles that are furnished to the STATE shall be maintained and 
operated in accordance to LOCAL AGENCY policies. In the event LOCAL AGENCY does 
not have such policies, LOCAL AGENCY-owned vehicles shall be maintained and operated 
in accordance with STATE policies. The cost of said vehicle maintenance and operation shall 
be at actual cost or at rates listed in Exhibït D, Schedule D. 

Exhibit D, Schedule D is incorporated into this section if LOCAL AGENCY-owned vehicles 
listed in Exhibit D, Schedule D are to be operated, maintained, and repaired by STATE. 

LOCAL AGENCY assumes full responsibility for all liabilities associated therewith in 
accordance with California Vehicle Code Sections 17000, 17001 et seq. STATE employees 
operating LOCAL AGENCY-owned vehicles shall be deemed employees of LOCAL 
AGENCY, as defined in Vehicle Code Section 17000. Except where LOCAL AGENCY would 
have no duty to indemnify STATE under Exhibit C, Section 6 for all LOCAL AGENCY-owned 
vehicles operated or used by employees of STATE under this agreement. 

Contractor Name: City of Griclley 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 16 

LOCAL AGENCY employees, who are under the supervision of the Unit Chief and operating 
STATE-owned motor vehicles, as a part of the duties and in connection with fire protection 
and other emergency services, shall be deemed employees of STATE, as defined in Vehicle 
Code Section 17000 for acts or omissions in the use of such vehicles. Except where STATE 
would have no duty to indemnify LOCAL AGENCY under Exhibit C, Section 6. 

E. Certification of Insurance -Provider Insurance Certification and/or proof of self-

insurance. 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 17 

--EXHIBIT D_SCHEDULE A 

LOCAL FUNDED —STATE RESOURCES 

FISCAL DISPLAY 

PRC 4142 

NAME OF LOCAL AGENCY: City of Gridley 

CONTRACT NUMBER: 

2CA04403 

Index: 2100 

PCA: 27120 

Fiscal Year: 2019/20 to 2019/20 

This is Schedule A of Cooperative Agreement originally dated July 1, 2019, by and between CAL 
FIRE of the State of California and LOCAL AGENCY. 

(See Attached) 

(LGl REV.OU20t7) 

~ 

FlacslYear.~~~2019 
,. 
Index:' ^ ~ 
.''2101  '„  .~~:: 
, 
PCA 
'  , 
`27120 
;.,, 
, ~ 
, 
^,-.i_4142 
_. 
PRC 
Commenls-: atyofGrfdley 
This is a SchedWB A- 4142 of ihe Coopetalive Agreemenl, dated July 1, 2019 belween Cily Of Gridley-arW 
Tne California DeparMent of Foresuy and Fire Protettion (CAL FIRE) 

.; 
~''~ 
~, 
. ,.. 
. 
~- : 

-  Unic ~BWte 

.  .~-. 

.  , 

~., 
.. 

. 
-._ 

, 

` 

. 

~ 

~ 

, 

,~:  SubTolal~ 

"  Admin  ~ . 

~ 
~ 

.. 

~_5799,052 : ~ 

.  -- - 593,409  ~~ 

~ 

, 
.  ~. 

.  - 

. 

Total 
.. 
overtlme7otal: 

. 

. 

. 

$892,461 

. 

' $37,500 

. 

~ 

~ 

. 

-~ ~~ ~ 
~, -,~-_; CAL FIRE Unit Chiet 
~. ~:-e:CAL FIRE Region Chief ^,~:..~ 

I 

'-- ---~--- ~------ ---%-----.._. 

~ 

.. 

! 

, 
pavid I ImvkS 
Mike L3ndlt 
._. .  ,L, , 

. 

- 

~ 

~~ 

~ 

. 

~ 

. 
...-.~ 

~ 

. 

ConVaetName:  ~ 
~ 

- 

~ 

~ 
Contract No.: 2CA04403 
. 

Page No.: 

(`;tyofGridlcy 
. 

~ 

.,. 

- 

. 
~ 
; 18 
; 

._. 

... _. , 

t.  ._., _, 

~ -_-- I_._.-.. _. __- 

I 

' 

I 

I  

i  

I 

I  

i 

- 

- ------ ~-- 

-- ----  -- 

- 
I  ---  1 - 

- 

_~ 

I 

-._ 

— ~ 

~-- .._ 

. 

, ;~;_ 
, 
. 
.,.. 
,. 
~ 
......:i:.  

. 
_ 

- 

Number of 
Poslllons 

Classiflcatfonlad-ons (Pica from lirq  

RET.  

Period 

Salary 
Months 

Salary 
Rale 

Total Salary 

EDWC Rate 

EOWC Periods 

Total EDWC 

Salary 
8ene0ts 

FFI  UI  

EDWC 
BeneOls 

Total Salary & 

Tolal Posltion 

EDWC _ 

Cost 

. , .---'-"--I------'--...._..,,._. 

.__~.,.,,--.__ 

I  POf 
POF 
POf 
, 

cFlre Captain, Range A 

~ 

~~ ~ 

_ 

1 
1~ 
~ 
1 

~  ~Longeviry.Pay Ddferential  596 
,  I. 
~_ 
„  .j 

~~ 
~ 
_ ,. ,, 
i  Edutation Incentive Pay Ddferential 
,  . 
, 
,  _.... 
....... . .... 

,  _, ,,. 
., .. 

... 

~~ 

~ 

. 

~ 

. 

. 

.. 

. 
,  ...,.-. _ 
. 
. 

. 
, 
..  .,  , 
......... 
iOvertime 
;fueApparatusEngineer 
IEducation Incenhve Pa Odferentisl 
I 
Y 
' Lon evit  Pa  Differential - 3% 
f .  B .  . Y, . . Y 
.. 
?HatmatPayDifferentisl 
-_ 
. . 
, 
i 
....... 
IOvertime 
:Communicationz Operator, Range 8 

. 
........ 

. 

. .. _ 

......  . 

__.. 

,  ---.... 

. 

..  ..... 
. .. . I 
- 

,.  ,.. 

. 
i 

_ 

3 
3 
3 
0 

0$ 

„ ,,, 
. 
. 
. 
~ 
- 
.,..._ 
~ 
~ Overtime 

.  ..  . 
. 
, 
„ 

. 

. 

. 
. 

.  . 
. 
, 

.  ..... 
,  „ 
- 
. 

, 

...... 
-.. _ 
.  . 

. 

.. 
.. 

,.., 
_.. 

, 
, 
....  . 

,.,, 

- , 

. 

. 

. 

. 

~ 

. 

. 

; 

: 

! 

_ ~ 

.. 
,._ 

12 
12 
12 

SS 580 ; _ 

SO 1 
575 ~ 
SO  ~ 

7n.arao 
vt.arw 
m.erJo 

7n•W3o 
7n•rw7o 
m.c3ao 
m.ww 

$66,960 
~ ~~  $3,348 
_,_ .. . 
$900 
.  -----" 
. 

. 
; 
._ 
; 
.  , 
,  „ ,_  ,-- 
.. ......~ 
! 
, 
POf 
.  .,, 
POF _ _ ~ 
. 
POF 
` 
POF 
.. -,  ,  .  ,..___....-  -- _-  ..._._..  .__._. ,  ...  ...- 
5AF 

S~ 
_..,  .--~  -  ~  ~-  --  _..  ..i.  .  SO-;...,--- 
$35,000 
$179,OW 
.. -- - 
$2,700 
$5,372 
SD 
$0 
$20,000 
$32,994 
$0~ 
-- 
$~ 

$49741 
I _ 
$75 
50 I 
,  I  -  $150  i 
SO,I.... 
- 

I 
I  55499 I 
.. 

I 
12 
------  --• : 
_ 12 
~ 
i  ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~12 
° 
12 
. 
i 
1 
I-- -12 
l .._'- - 
I_,— 
I  -  - 
. 
. 
- 
_  ... _ 

$D,I~, :~ , 
$0.~ .-'-  
_ 
So I~ 
-- 

.. .. _  . ~.  ... ..  . 

._..  _ 

'  --- 

7it•6t70 

_ _ - _ 

. ~ . . 

$0 

_ _ 

. 

. 

; 

_ 

~ 

- 

'- 

-- 

,,, 
- 
, 
..  __ 
' 
- 
--  .. 
. . 
, 
~ 
...  ,~_ 

. 

-_..-. 

__._. 

--- 
.----_._-- r--'----~---- 

. 
~--------- 
-_.,_._..--'---.-----------  ~-----__~_. 
...-------.---'-----.-----~.---I-' 

I 

I 

• 

. _..-_ 

- 

--. 

_ 

.,  ,._ 

SO  i 
. 
So ~ 

- . _.--- 

SO_l—_ 

~ SO ~ 

SD 

----'I-  

.. , 

. , 

___ 

~ 

~._ 

_- - 

Overtime 

~ 

.. 

.. 

. 

. 

--.. 

.  ..  .  _. . 

..  . ..  :..  ...........  . ° 

—r- 
,  . 

, 

~ 

$2,500 
$0 
$o 
so 
so 
so 

~ 

. 
, 
_ 
,,.  _ 
I 
• 

. 

, 
' 
' 

. 

. 

...  .... 
. 

lOvertime 

_ 

. 

. 

_ 

~ 
... 
. 
..  , 
. , . 

_ 

. 

_.  ,. .. 

; 
. 
~ 

. . 

.  . 
... 

' 

, 

;. 
; 
, 
: 

. 

,...  ,,,, 

- 

S01 
 
$0 
50.- 
5o 
50 

.,_. 
..-. -..,.—. 

„  ....SOi_...-- 

SOI 

501.  -_,_._ ~_...-' 

_ 

. 

,.... 

~~ -----„I 

— 
SOÍ 

-- — 

------- 

-----

S0~ 
.- 
SO 

I 

~—~--__ 

$3,0801 
- 

12 

Í ---- ~  _~ ~ ~ ~ 

----------  ~ I- 

~_~- 

~~ ~ 

-- 

1 
$2,749 

12 

I 
--*---~--------~- 
$01 

0 

$0 

0 

I -~ ~ 

- 

.,  $20,2731 
'"" _ , SOI_ 

5185_6_89 
, ._.._~.._56;423 

$208,838 

. 

.,,.,.._ 
,  ..,. ... 

515,000  ~---- ~-~-  ~- 
$532,247 

_ 

-~-~ 

-  --' - 

$OÍ 
~~~~ .... I

-- 
--' --' 
~ —~ 
- 

$36,960 
$61,4961 
~ ~~~~  g0 
—$3,075 
----_ 
SO 
$827 
$0 
$D 
~  --SO 
SO 
SOI 
5164,452- 
$98,964] 
- SO 
_$2,480 - ---'-- l 
It
SO 
$0 
._. 
SO 
$ò~  -'~--  $0~ 
$0~ 
$0 
----' SQI 
__ 
— 

$22,472I 
_ 
SO 
--  50 

_ _  54,_9341 
$0~ 
$Oi  

.,-'-- 

- -'- 

_ 

L 

.._ 

SD 

-- 

~~~ 

-...  

$0 
511727 
~ ~I---'-- 
SO 
~ SO 
~ SO 
$DI
$Oj 
SOj__$54,_2821 
$0 
$0 
$0 
$0 
$0 
SD~ 
$D 
$D 

__54.9_6_762 
~ 
__ 55180 
5_10.305 
SO 
_$0 
520,000 
555A66 
1 SO 
Sl) 

----- 

~  ~ 

_- 

~ 
$Ó 
$0~ 
S01 
~I-- 

50I 
$0 
$01 
Sò~--  
---- _... 
SOj~ 
$~ _. 
-'- $~~.- _ 
$0~ 
SOI  
. 
-"  --  $0-  
_  --..__...$0 

50~ 
S0: 

__$~ 

 

- 
I 

I 

-  ~ - 

--- 
- 
...,1  .-'---,..------ 

$0~ 
$OI  
_.._ ..----
'SO  
----- 
'$UI„ 
---- 
~ 
$0~ 
$0 
$01 
$01 
_. -SOt ...  
$01 
— so — — - sor  
'-' SoT . -.. 
_..-----__  . 
so~  
SD 

, 

i 

. 

s~o 
$0 
$Oj 

$0 

--_$ol.— 
— $0 
_ SD __ 
-  SD 
$0~  

— 

SÓ 
52,500 
- SO 
, Sò 
SO 
: 
_ 50 
, 50 
i  SÓ 
i SO 
50 
.....-...SO 

~~ 

$0: 
.  .. 

_....-. 

,  ., ..,  

--'. 
— 

~--  ---- 

$OI_....., 
$0 
_._.. 
.50 
SO 
-_ 50 
„  . 
_ SO 
r 50' 
~__  ~------.. _. 
$Oi 
I 
SO 
$0: 
$0~ 
- $0 
'  '-~-- -..,I._.-..SO 
50 
150 

_50(•~_ 
S0: 
- $0~ 
S0~ 
,  --  , 
spl-  
, 
SO 

~-$0 

. ._.—,_ 

.. 

.. 

.... 

~ 

. 

.. 

... 

.- 

_ ._._.,._.. 

.. 

$57,966 

, 

. _ _....  ...  .... 

- 

, 

,..------ 
---- 
.. 
--'---._... 
$0 

-- - 
..,_- : 
,...  ,-- 
._ . ............. 

.. 
. 

$0 

. 

_ 

_ 

, 
._  ..._ 
,..  _,.- 
...,.._.._.  _,  -.. ,.... 

SO 

,  .  , 

, 

.  , 

, 

, 

,  ._ 

, 

, 

-  . 

, 

, 

. 

. , 

.  . 

1  

—  - 
.--  — 

~ 

- -.--~--•------- 
~-- 
... --~--'--~-~—•---~------. 

~Overdme 

~ 
i 

- 
,,,  .  ..___•.,,  ..-----._. 
1-----'--"- 
---'- 

~ 
- 
.. 
. 
,.  ,.  „ 
~--.. 
--  -._ 
-__ 
' 
. . .. .  . . .  .. _ -.  _.._. . 

„ 
.. 
- -._  . 
-.. __.... _ . 

-- 
~----- ------I- 
I 

— 

~-~--•-, 

... 

- 

_  ...  . 

~ 

~ 

SO 1 
$0: 
.. 
$0 ~ . 
... 
$o : 

$o 
_. _. 

. 

. 

. 

, 

.  _ 
._. 

._-- 

--- 
-- 

50: 
SOÍ 
501  
so~ 
$01 

- 

— 
_ 

1--  

.. 
..,.,--~ -- ..,1--'-_"~-- 

..,.. 

- 

S0: 

0 

- 

...-----•---•--~--...._..-_.. 
, 
.-----...~..-•-----.. 
...---._ 
- ---- 
.. -.-._..--- 
-------- CNartime 

- .  . -  ...  . 

-- 

....  ..  ....... 

._.__.-.;_• ___ 

. 

. 
' 

-----~--  - ~ .-_._ 
..__ 

..- 

._.- 
._.._.....  .  .!....._  . 

_~.  . 
...,  . 

- 

. 

....  ....  ...  ... 

~..... 

..... 

. 

.. .  -~-------' 
I--" 
-
... 

So 
50
$0  1 
$o 
go 

 ....  .._.. 
;_..,. 

So1 
~-~ 
$o~.  
So~ 
$o 
$o 

- 

SO 

o 

' 

So1._ 
$ò 
$D 
$o 
So 
$0 

.. 

... 

. 

... 
. : 

—. 

~ 

— _..._ sD 
. -- -- 5o 

~o 

-  -  aD 
--J-- I Sò 

.. ~---._.. 
--- 

._ 
._ -._ .. 

_ 

_ 

$o 
$0 
$D 
So 
$ó 
$0 

~ SO 

$o 

; $0 
--  --...,.- _ 
I Sò 
.  j Sò 
.---- 
.- 
- 
Sò 
:50 ~~-- 

_,.._....,,._. 

..-_-...  $o 

501 
$o 
$o 
$o 
So 
- So 
$D 

Fiscal Year 2019 
Index: 2101 
PCA: 27120 
PRC:4142 

Uniform Benefits 
Sub Total 
Admin 
-  '  Total . 

' 

-$124 
$34,669 
$4,053 
S38,721 

Contract Name: 

City of Gridley 

Con4ract No.: 2CA04403 

Page No.i 19 

Comments 
,This is a Schedule A - 4142 of the Cooperative Agreement, dated July 1, 2019 between City of Gridley and 
~~Califomia Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE) 

The 

--------I---  --.. 
-  ~ 
- 

— • 

—  ~ --------- 

--; . _-.... ~-- 

~  -- 

Category (Pick from List) 

Details 

Number  Months 

Rate 

Sub-Total 

Uniform Benefits 

1.45%  

UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR COMM OP  

UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR BUe  
UNIFORM ALLOWANCE FOR BU8 

TRAVEL 

GENERAL EXPENSE 

- ~ -. 

_ 
_. 
--._.-._ 

Com  O 

~ 
P---•-- 

1.00 _.-. 

FC  _____   i  1.00 
FAE 
3.00 
- 
~--i— 
i  1.00 
Claims  —  
Gridley 

_ - I  1.00 .. 

.--- 

~ 

i  
~  6.00 
. 
~  12.00 
~  12.00 
~—~-- 
1.00 
--  
-  1.00 
1.00 

$104 
$178 
$178 
$10000 
$10000 
$5400 

I 
~ ~ $ 
I $ 
$ 
$ 
$ 
$ 

625...-' 

2,130 ~_ $ 
6,390  $ 
10,000 
10,000 
5,400 

VEHICLE OPERATIONS 

_ _~ _  Gridley Shop Rent 

° 

1.00 _ 

i  

Total  

t 

93  $ 

$ 
—~-- 

625 
_ 31 I $  _2,161 
6,483 ~ 
----i  $  10,000 
---- -- 
_ 10,000 
—_ ~ $_ 
5,400 
__  $ 

I 
~ 

I 

~ 
~ 
~ 

_ 

----- 

-- 

-----~-------~------~----i-~-  ---- 
. ---~-~--._. _.... --------j-------~----~ ----- ---- 
-~----------~----~---------(--------- 

....._.. 
___ . 
~-----~-~ ~---~--------~ -~----I ---~-- 
------~--------- 
--~----~~----~--~ 
- - -~-~--~--~~-~------....----~--~ ------------- 

_ ..---------~-----,-- --- 
----~---- ---- --~---;------- 
--- 
- - -----------------------~--~---------~ 
_..._._ 
- ~ 
_ . .... 

...--~--~--...----~-~ 
---~-------~-~~---~- 

-- 

I 

I 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 

Contract No: 2CA04403 

_ 

__ Page No.: 20 _ 

__ 

___ 

_ 

EXHIBIT D SCHEDULE B 

STATE FUNDED RESOURCES 

NAME OF LOCAL AGENCY;City of Gridley 

This is Schedule B of Cooperative Agreement originally dated July 1, 2019, by and between CAL 
FIRE of the State of California and LOCAL AGENCY. 

FISCAL YEAR: 2019/20 to 2019/20 

(See Attached) 

(LGI REV. 01/2017) 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 21 

- 

EXHIBIT D SCHEDULE C 

LOCAL FUNDED LOCAL RESOURCES 

ASSIGNED TO THE CAL FIRE UNIT 

NAME OF LOCAL AGENCY:City of Gridley 

This is Schedule C of Cooperative Agreement originally dated July 1, 2019, by and between CAL 
FIRE of the State of California and LOCAL AGENCY. 

FISCAL YEAR:  2019/20 to 2019/20 

(See Attached) 

(LGl REV.OU20U) 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No: 2CA04403 
Page No.: 22 

EXHIBIT D, SCHEDULED (page two) 

LOCAL AGENCY OWNED 

STATE MAINTAINED VEHICLES 

(2) For all passenger and service vehicles for which a "Mileage Rate" is shown, STATE 

shall: 

a.  Provide fuel, oil, lubrication, batteries and tires and tubes. 
b.  Make such reasonable repairs to said vehicles as may be necessary to keep 
the vehicles in operating condition provided, however, that the STATE may 
cease to make further repairs on any vehicles when the potential repair casts 
are not reasonable considering the vehicle age, market value and other 
pertinent factors. 

Upon such determination, the STATE shall immediately so notify the LOCAL 
AGENCY and the LOCAL AGENCY shall have the option of replacing said 
vehicle or STATE shall discontinue the particular service. 

(3)  For all vehicles listed under the heading "Flat Rate" or "Mileage Rate', LOCAL AGENCY 

shall assume accident repairs in excess of $2,000 per occurrence. 

(4) For all vehicles listed under the heading "Actual Cost", the STATE shall operate, 

maintain, and repair said vehicles at the STATE'S actual cost. 

(5) LOCAL AGENCY-owned vehicles to be maintained pursuant to this section are listed 
below by category and are described by year model, "Rate Letter" type, and license 
number. 

Category 

Flat Rate 1 A 

Flat Rate 1 A 

Year Model 

1995 

2005 

Type 

3 B 1 

2 B ! 

License Number 

E021598 

1194655 

(LGl REV.OI/2017) 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 

Contract No: 2CA04403 

Page No.: 23 

EXHIBIT D SCHEDULE E 

This is Schedule E of Cooperative Agreement originally dated July 1, 2019, by and between the 
CAL FIRE of the State of California and LOCAL AGENCY 
NAME OF LOCAL AGENCY:City of Gridley 

The CAL FIRE, State of California and its officers, agents, employees, and servants are included 
as additional insured for the purposes of this contract. The State shall receive thirty (30) days 
prior written notice of any cancellation or change to the policy at the addresses listed in LG1, 
Page 2. 
FISCAL YEAR:  2019/20 to 2019/20 

SELF-INSURANCE CERTIFICATION BY LOCAL AGENCY FOR 

TORT LIABILITY 

This is to certify that LOCAL AGENCY has elected to be self-insured under the self-insurance 
provision provided in Exhibit C, Section 17. 

L-39 

Administration 

Title 

Paul Eckert 

Signature 

Printed Name 

Date 

SELF-INSURANCE CERTIFICATION BY LOCAL AGENCY 

WORKER'S COMPENSATION BENEFITS 

FOR 

This is to certify that LOCAL AGENCY has elected to be self-insured for Workers' Compensation 
benefits which comply with Labor Code Section 3700 as provided in Exhibit C, Section 18. 

By: 

Administration 

Title 

Paul Eckert 

Signature 

Printed Name 

Date 

SELF-INSURANCE CERTIFICATION BY LOCAL AGENCY 

LOCAL AGENCY-OWNED VEHICLES 

FOR 

This is to certify that LOCAL AGENCY has elected to be self-insured for local agency-owned 
vehicles under the self-insurance provision provided in Exhibit D, Schedule D. 

By: 

Administration 

Title 

(LGi REV.Ot/20 U) 

Paul Eckert 

Signature 

Printed Name 

Date 

Contractor Name: City of Gridley 
Contract No: 2CA04403 

Page No.: 24 

EXHIBIT E 

DESCRIPTION OF OTHER SERVICES 

For the City of Gridley fire vehicles enroute to State incidents, training or other state required 
meetings, Cal Fire will supply Voyager gas cards. 

City Council Agenda Item #4 

Staff Report 

July 1, 2019 
Mayor and City Council 
Paul Eckert, City Administrator 
Interviews of Candidates to fill Planning Commissioner Vacancies 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

Emergency 

 
Date: 
 
To: 
 
From:   
Subject: 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

Term 
2018-2022 
2018-2022 
2016-2020 
2016-2020 
2016-2020 

Term Expirations 
1/1/2022 
1/1/2022 
1/1/2020 
1/1/2020 
1/1/2020 

 
Recommendation 
City staff respectfully recommends that the City Council interview the three candidates who 
applied to fill the two Planning Commissioner seat vacancies. 
Background 
The recent appointment of Zachary Torres to City Council and the resignation of Bob Wise on June 10th 
created two partial term vacancies on the Planning Commission.  The partial terms will expire on 
January 1, 2022.  The Planning Commission is comprised of the following members: 
 
Commissioner   
Vacant   
 
 
Vacant   
 
Maria Espino 
Ishrat Khan  
 
Kenneth Wolfe   
 
In keeping with the Council’s direction at the May 20th Council meeting, staff advertised the Planning 
Commission vacancies and utilized an application and letter of interest process.   Three applications 
were received prior to the deadline on June 14, 2019.  The Council will facilitate brief presentations of 
interest during the Council Meeting.  No action will be taken during the Council meeting. 
 
During the regular Council meeting on July 15th or August 5th the City Council will take action to 
appoint a new Commissioner utilizing a simple nomination process following the Roberts Rules 
of Order to decide who will be appointed.  The new Commissioner’s terms will start at the 
Planning Commission meeting following Council appointment. 
 
Financial Impact - None  
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals  
The City Council and City staff are committed to providing effective leadership while providing 
quality cost effective local government services.  
 
Attachments – None 

City Council Agenda Item #5 

Staff Report 

July 1, 2019 
Mayor and City Council 
Paul Eckert, City Administrator 
Council Appointment of Partial Term Councilmember 

X  Regular  
 
Special 
  Closed 
 

Emergency 

 
Date: 
 
To: 
 
From:   
Subject: 

Recommendation 
City staff respectfully recommends that the City Council appoint a partial term Councilmember to fill the 
Council seat expiring in November 2020, vacated by the passing of Frank Hall in accordance with the 
process the City Council directed at the March 4, 2019, Council Meeting.   
Background 
Frank Hall’s passing on April 12, 2019, created a vacancy on the City Council. (Gov. Code, § 1770, subd. 
(a).) Government Code provides that if a vacancy occurs on the City Council the City Council shall either 
fill the vacancy by appointment or call a Special Election to fill the vacancy.  
 
City Council has previously voted to utilize a letter of interest and application process to solicit interest 
in City Council vacancies.  On May 6, 2019, City Council directed staff to advertise the current vacancy 
and utilize this same process.  The Council opening was well advertised including social media, letters 
and emails to service clubs, and the posting on the Highway 99 marquee.  The public was well informed 
of the vacancy and application process.  Applications were due May 17th. 
 
Applications received were provided to Council for their review and at the May 20th Council meeting, 
staff received direction to arrange for a Special City Council meeting on June 3 to interview the 
applicants.  The Council will follow the Roberts Rules of Order process to decide who will be appointed.  
Under Roberts Rules, more than one person may be nominated until one person receives a majority of 
votes. The City Council will therefore vote on the first person nominated, and, if that person does not 
receive majority votes, the City Council will vote on the second name and so forth until one person 
receives a majority vote.  If appointed, the new partial term Councilmember’s term is expected to begin 
July or August.  Similar to the process utilized for recent new Councilmembers, staff will coordinate a 
comprehensive Council orientation process for the new Councilmember immediately after appointment.   
Financial Impact 
Appointment of a Councilmember does not have any direct financial impact.   
 
Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council and City staff are committed to providing effective leadership while providing quality 
cost effective local government services. 
 
Attachments – None 

