Gridley City Council —Regular City Council Meeting Agenda 

Monday, August 19th, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

"Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community's vitality and overall quality of life. We 

are committed to providing high quality, cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations. We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives." 

CALL TO ORDER -Mayor Johnson 

ROLL CALL -Recording Secretary 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE — Councilmember Crye 

PROCLAMATIONS —None 

INTRODUCTION OF NEW OR PROMOTED EMPLOYEES -None 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM -Members of the public may address the City Council on 
matters not listed on the agenda. The City Council may not discuss nor take action on any 
community participation item brought forward by a member of the community. Comments are 
requested to be limited to three (3) minutes. 

CONSENT AGENDA —Items on the Consent Agenda are considered routine and acted upon by one 
motion. Any Council member may request that an item be removed for separate consideration. The 
City Council may only make minor comments; otherwise the item should be removed from the 
Consent Agenda and placed as the first items) under "Items for Council Consideration". 

1. 

2. 

City Council minutes dated August 5, 2019 

Approval of Resolutions 2019-R-018, 2019-R-019, 2019-R-020, and 2019-R-021 
Authorizing the Levy of Assessment District Expenses for the Butte County 2019-
2020 Tax Roll 

PUBLIC HEARING —None 

ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

Approval of Butte Subbasin Cooperation Agreement 

4. 

Approval of New Playground Equipment for Vierra Park 

City Council Committee Assignments 

CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS -Brief updates from City staff and brief reports on 
conferences, seminars, and meetings attended by the Mayor and City Council members, if any. 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 8-19-19 

Page 1 of 2 

POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 

Potential Cessation of Net Metering Program 
Police Department Digital radio system 
Police Vehicle Purchase 
Cat Population Control Program 

9/3/2019 
9/3/2019 
9/3/2019 
9/16/2019 

CLOSED SESSION 

1. 

Conference with Labor Negotiators pursuant to Government Code 54957.6 to meet 
and confer with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and Gridley Police 
Officers Association 

ADJOURNMENT — adjourning to the next regularly scheduled meeting on Tuesday, September 3, 
2019 

NOTE 1: POSTING OF AGENDA- This agenda was posted on the public bulletin board at City Hall at 
or before 6:00 p.m., August 16th, 2019, in accordance with Government Code Section 54954.2. This 
agenda along with all attachments is available for public viewing online at www.>;ridley.ca.us  and at 
the Administration counter in City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA. 

NOTE 2: REGARDING UNSCHEDULED MATTERS — In accordance with state law, it shall be the policy 
of this Council that no action shall betaken on any item presented during the public forum or on 
unscheduled matters unless the Council, by majority vote, determines that an emergency situation 
exists, or, unless the Council by atwo-thirds vote finds that the need to take action arose 
subsequent to the posting of this agenda. 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL AGENDA: Regular Meeting of 8-19-19 

Page 2 of 2 

Gridley City Council —DRAFT City Council Meeting Minutes 

Monday, August 5th, 2019; 6:00 pm 

Gridley City Hall, 685 Kentucky Street, Gridley, CA 95948 

"Our purpose is to continuously enhance our community's vitality and overall quality of life. We 

are committed to providing high quality, cost-effective municipal services and forming 

productive partnerships with our residents and regional organizations. We collectively develop, 

share, and are guided by a clear vision, values, and meaningful objectives." 

CALL TO ORDER 

Mayor Johnson called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. 

ROLL CALL 

Councilmembers 
Present: 
Absent: 
Arriving after roll call: 

Staff present: 

Williams, Borges, Johnson, Torres 
None 
None 

Paul Eckert, City Administrator 
Tony Galyean, City Attorney 
AI Byers, Police Chief 
Daryl Dye, Utilities Director 

PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 

The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Mayor Johnson 

PROCLAMATIONS —None 

INTRODUCTION OF NEW OR PROMOTED EMPLOYEES 

•  New Police Officer Ruben Quihuiz 

Chief Byers introduced Officer Quihuiz to the Council and Staff. Officer Quihuiz comes to Gridley 
with over 13 years' experience at the Oroville Police Department where Chief Byers worked with 
him for eight years. Officer Quihuiz thanked Council for the opportunity to work in Gridley. 

COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION FORUM 

Mayor Johnson opened the forum and seeing no one present wishing to speak, the forum was 
closed. 

CONSENT AGENDA 

1. 

2. 

City Council minutes dated July 1, 2019 

Appointment of two new Planning Commissioners 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 8-5-19 

Page 1 of 3 

Motion to approve the Consent Agenda by Councilmember Torres, seconded by Vice Mayor 
Williams 

Motion passed, all in favor 

PUBLIC HEARING —None 

ITEMS FOR COUNCIL CONSIDERATION 

Approval of Letter to Butte County Board of Supervisors Opposing Hemp Farm 

Administrator Eckert reviewed the letter expressing Council's and the community's dismay and 
concern over the Agriculture Commissioner's approval of a hemp farm directly adjacent to 1/3 of 
the Gridley community, Gridley High School and Orchard Hospital and it's senior housing. 

Motion to approve sending the letter by Councilmember Torres, seconded by Councilmember 
Borges. 

ROLL CALL VOTE 
Ayes: Johnson, Torres, Borges, Williams 
Motion passed, 4-0 

4. 

Presentation of new software program Crime Graphic Citizen RIMS 

Chief AI Byers briefly demonstrated how to use the new Citizen RIMS and explained the benefits 
of the program. He encouraged all to use the program when they have an inquiry regarding an 
incident in progress (or in the past) and also to register their personal security systems to be able 
to assist the Gridley-Biggs Police Department in criminal cases. 

5. 

Swearing in and seating of new Council Member  Quintin  Crye 

City Attorney Tony Galyean administered the Oath to  Quintin  Crye and Crye was seated with City 
Council. 

Attorney Galyean announced that a Speaker Card had been turned in late and the Mayor could 
choose to re-open the Community Participation Forum to hear the public comment. 

Mayor Johnson re-opened the Forum and Kay Ball of 1680 West Biggs Gridley Road addressed 
Council expressing her ongoing concern about the number of stray cats in the area. 

CITY STAFF AND COUNCIL COMMITTEE REPORTS 

Mayor Johnson reported on the Butte County Mosquito and Vector Control District meeting he 
attended. 

POTENTIAL FUTURE CITY COUNCIL ITEMS - (Appearing on the Agenda within 30-90 days): 

Potential Cessation of Net Metering Program 

Police Department Digital radio system 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 8-5-19 

8/19/2019 

9/3/2019 

Page 2 of 3 

CLOSED SESSION 

6. 

Conference with Labor Negotiators pursuant to Government Code 54957.6 to meet 
and confer with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and Gridley Police 
Officers Association 

Council went into Closed Session at 6:40 p.m. and came out of Closed Session at 7:41 p.m. with 
no reportable action. 

ADJOURNMENT 

With no items for further discussion, Council adjourned at 7:41 p.m. to the next regularly 
scheduled meeting on August 19, 2019. 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

GRIDLEY CITY COUNCIL MINUTES: Regular Meeting of 8-5-19 

Page 3 of 3 

City Council Agenda Item #2 

Staff Report 

Date: 

August 19, 2019 

To: 

Mayor and City Council 

X  Regular 
Special 
Closed 
Emergency 

From: 

Paul Eckert, Finance Director /City Administrator 

Subject: 

Approval of Resolutions 2019-R-018, 2019-R-019, 2019-R-020, and 2019-R-021 
Authorizing the Levy of Assessment District Expenses for the Butte County 2019-2020 
Tax Roll 

Recommendation 
City staff respectfully requests that the Mayor and City Council receive a staff report and consider 
adoption of the four assessment district resolutions. 

Background 
The Gridley City Council previously approved the formation of the maintenance districts to construct, 
operate and maintain various public improvements within the newer subdivisions in the City under 
provisions of the Improvement Act of 1911. To finance the annual maintenance of this infrastructure, it 
is required to assess the expenses of maintenance and operation of the improvements upon the real 
property within the district to be benefited thereby. These resolutions represent the completion of that 
annual assessment process. 

The City Engineer for the City of Gridley procured preparation of a report in accordance with law, 
including the improvement act of 1911, as well as the California State Constitution, Article XIII D, to set 
the amount and basis of the amounts to be assessed against each parcel within the districts, the 
adjustments to be made to annual assessments based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index and 
other particulars relating to the district. Pursuant to the provisions of Proposition 218, namely Article 
XIII D of the California Constitution, the City, after giving due and proper notice as required by 
Proposition 218, at its meeting of October 17, 2005 conducted a public hearing on the proposed 
modifications to the assessment pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII D, Section 4(e). The Tax 
Collector of the County of Butte was requested to levy and add to the tax bill sent by the County to the 
owner of each parcel of real property within the boundaries of the districts and operation and 
maintenance assessment for the fiscal year commencing 2005/2006, and for each year thereafter, which 
assessment was collected from each land owner with the proportioning of the collection between the 
first installment and the second installment to be determined by the County Tax Collector. 

Fiscal Impact 
The service level for the maintenance districts is recommended to be the same as prior year. The City 
has the authority to charge a CPI increase, but the City has not done so in several years. The City is not 
recommending a CPI increase at this time. 

Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council and City staff are committed to provide the best possible financial practices and the 
highest possible transparency regarding all financial transactions. 

Attachments 

1.  Resolution 2019-R-018: A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY 

ASSESSMENT DISTRICT N0. 6 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2018-2019 TAX ROLL 

2.  Resolution 2019-R-019: A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY 

ASSESSMENT DISTRICT N0.2 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2018-19 TAX ROLL 

3.  Resolution 2019-R-020: A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY 

ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO. 3 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2018-2019 TAX ROLL 

4.  Resolution 2019-R-021: A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY 

ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO. 1 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2018-2019 TAX ROLL 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-018 

OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO. 6 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2019-2020 TAX ROLL 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL 

WHEREAS,  the Gridley City Council previously approved the formation of Maintenance District # 6 
(Resolution No. 2008-R-047) to construct, operate and maintain various public improvement within Bowwood 
estates under the improvement act of 1911, (Streets and Highways Code Section 5820, and 5821 et seq); and 

WHEREAS,  the City Council of the City of Gridley has determined that it is appropriate and necessary to 
assess the expenses of maintenance and operation of the improvements upon the real property within the district 
to be benefited thereby; and 

WHEREAS, the City Engineer for the City of Gridley caused a report to be prepared in the manner provided 
by law, including the improvement act of 1911, as well as the California State Constitution, Article XIII D to set the 
amount and basis of the amounts to be assessed against each parcel within the Assessment District, the adjustments 
to be made to annual assessments based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index and other particulars relating 
to the District, and 

WHEREAS, The Tax Collector of the County of Butte was requested to levy and add to the tax bill sent by 
the County to the owner of each parcel of real property within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance 
Assessment District No. 6, and operation and maintenance assessment for the fiscal year commencing 2009/2010 , 
and for each year thereafter, which assessment was collected from each land owner with the proportioning of the 
collection between the first installment and the second installment to be determined by the County Tax Collector; 
and 

WHEREAS,  Government Codes 54703 & 54718 provides the authority for the City to place the assessment 

on the tax roll. 

NOW, THEREFORE,  the City Council of the City of Gridley approved the assessment for 2019-2020 for the 
amount of $ 559.44 without CPI increase. The benefit is to be provided to the owner of each parcel of real property 
within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance Assessment District No. 6. 

HEREBY CERTIFY  that this Resolution of the City Council of the City of Gridley was duly introduced and 
passed at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Gridley held on the 19`h  day of August, 2019 by the 
following vote: 

AYES: 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

NOES: 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

ABSENT: 

COUNCILMEMBERS 

ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBERS 

ATTEST: 

APPROVE: 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-019 

OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY ASSESSMENT DISTRICT N0.2 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2019-2020 TAX ROLL 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL 

WHEREAS,  the Gridley City Council previously approved the formation of Maintenance District #2 
(Resolution No. 2004-R-004) to construct, operate and maintain various public improvements within the Eagle 
Meadows subdivision under provisions of the Improvement Act of 1911 (Streets and Highways Code Section 5000 
and 5821,et seq); and 

WHEREAS,  the City Council of the City of Gridley has determined that it is appropriate and necessary to 
assess the expenses of maintenance and operation of the improvements upon the real property within the district 
to be benefited thereby; and 

WHEREAS, the City Engineer for the City of Gridley caused a report to be prepared in the manner provided 
by law, including the improvement act of 1911, as well as the California State Constitution, Article XIII D, to set the 
amount and basis ofthe amounts to be assessed against each parcel within the Assessment District, the adjustments 
to be made to annual assessments based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index and other particulars relating 
to the District, and 

WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Proposition 218, namely Article XIII D of the California Constitution, 
the City, after giving due and proper notice as required by Proposition 218, at its meeting of October 17, 2005 
conducted a public hearing on the proposed modifications to the assessment pursuant to California Constitution 
Article XIII D, Section 4(e); and 

WHEREAS, The Tax Collector of the County of Butte was requested to levy and add to the tax bill sent by 
the County to the owner of each parcel of real property within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance 
Assessment District No. 2, and operation and maintenance assessment for the fiscal year commencing 2005/2006, 
and for each year thereafter, which assessment was collected from each land owner with the proportioning of the 
collection between the first installment and the second installment to be determined by the County Tax Collector; 
and 

WHEREAS,  Government Codes 54703 & 54718 provides the authority for the City to place the assessment 

on the tax roll. 

NOW, THEREFORE,  the City Council of the City of Gridley approves the assessment for 2019-2020 for the 
amount of $570.82 without a CPI increase. The benefit is to be provided to the owner of each parcel of real property 
within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance Assessment District No.2. 

HEREBY CERTIFY  that this Resolution of the City Council of the City of Gridley was duly introduced and 
passed at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Gridley held on the 19th  day of August, 2019 by the 
following vote: 

AYES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

NOES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSENT: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ATTEST: 

APPROVE: 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-020 

OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO. 3 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2019-2020 TAX ROLL 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL 

WHEREAS,  the Gridley City Council previously approved the formation of Maintenance District #3 
(Resolution No. 2004-R-065) to construct, operate and maintain various public improvements within the Heron 
Landing subdivision under provisions of the Improvement Act of 1911(Streets and Highways Code Section 5000 and 
5821,et seq); and 

WHEREAS,  the City Council of the City of Gridley has determined that it is appropriate and necessary to 
assess the expenses of maintenance and operation of the improvements upon the real property within the district 
to be benefited thereby; and 

WHEREAS, the City Engineer for the City of Gridley caused a report to be prepared in the manner provided 
by law, including the improvement act of 1911, as well as the California State Constitution, Article XIII D, to set the 
amount and basis of the amounts to be assessed against each parcel within the Assessment District, the adjustments 
to be made to annual assessments based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index and other particulars relating 
to the District, and 

WHEREAS, The Tax Collector of the County of Butte was requested to levy and add to the tax bill sent by 
the County to the owner of each parcel of real property within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance 
Assessment District No. 3, and operation and maintenance assessment for the fiscal year commencing 2005/2006, 
and for each year thereafter, which assessment was collected from each land owner with the proportioning of the 
collection between the first installment and the second installment to be determined by the County Tax Collector; 
and 

WHEREAS, Government Codes 54703 & 54718 provides the authority for the City to place the assessment 

on the tax roll. 

NOW, THEREFORE,  the City Council of the City of Gridley approves the assessment for 2019-2020 for the 
amount of $208.96 without a CPI increase. The benefit is to be provided to the owner of each parcel of real property 
within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance Assessment District No.3. 

1  HEREBY CERTIFY that this Resolution of the City Council of the City of Gridley was duly introduced and 
passed at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Gridley held on the 19th  day of August, 2019 by the 
following vote: 

AYES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

NOES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSENT: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ATTEST: 

APPROVE: 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

RESOLUTION NO. 
2019-R-021 

OF THE CITY OF GRIDLEY TO LEVY ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO. 1 ON BUTTE COUNTY 2019-2020 TAX ROLL 

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL 

WHEREAS,  the Gridley City Council previously approved the formation of Maintenance District #1 
(Resolution No. 25 (1999 Series)) to construct, operate and maintain the specific facility of storm and flood water 
within the Richins subdivision under the benefit act of 1982, (Streets and Highways Code Section 3110, and 5821 et 
seq); and 

WHEREAS,  the City Council of the City of Gridley has determined that it is appropriate and necessary to 
assess the expenses of maintenance and operation of the improvements upon the real property within the district 
to be benefited thereby; and 

WHEREAS, the City Engineer for the City of Gridley caused a report to be prepared in the manner provided 
by law, including the improvement act of 1982, as well as the California State Constitution, Article XIII 4(e)) to set 
the amount and basis of the amounts to be assessed against each parcel within the Assessment District, the 
adjustments to be made to annual assessments based upon increases in the Consumer Price Index and other 
particulars relating to the District, and 

WHEREAS,  The Tax Collector of the County of Butte was requested to levy and add to the tax bill sent by 
the County to the owner of each parcel of real property within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance 
Assessment District No. 1, and operation and maintenance assessment for the fiscal year commencing 1999/2000, 
and for each year thereafter, which assessment was collected from each land owner with the proportioning of the 
collection between the first installment and the second installment to be determined by the County Tax Collector; 
and 

WHEREAS,  Government Codes 54703 & 54718 provides the authority for the City to place the assessment 

on the tax roll. 

NOW, THEREFORE,  the City Council of the City of Gridley approved the assessment for 2019-2020 for the 
amount of $113.52 without any CPI increase. The benefit is to be provided to the owner of each parcel of real 
property within the boundaries of the Gridley Maintenance Assessment District No.1. 

HEREBY CERTIFY  that this Resolution of the City Council of the City of Gridley was duly introduced and 
passed at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Gridley held on the 19th  day of August 2019 by the 
following vote: 

AYES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

NOES: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSENT: 

COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS 

ATTEST: 

APPROVE: 

Paul Eckert, City Clerk 

Bruce Johnson, Mayor 

City Council Agenda Item #3 

Staff Report 

Date: 

August 19, 2019 

To: 

Mayor and City Council 

From: 

Dave Harden, City Engineer 
Paul Eckert, City Administrator/Finance Director 

X  Regular 
Special 
Closed 
Emergency 

Subject: 

Cooperative Agreement among Groundwater Sustainability Agencies in the Butte 
Subbasin 

Recommendation 
Staff respectfully requests Council review and approve the attached agreement and authorize the 
Mayor to sign the Cooperation Agreement Among Groundwater Sustainability Agencies in the Butte 
Subbasin. 

Background 
On September 16, 2014, Governor Jerry Brown signed into law athree-bill legislative package. SGMA 
requires governments and water agencies of high and medium priority basins to halt overdraft and bring 
groundwater basins into balanced levels of pumping and recharge. Under SGMA, these basins should 
reach sustainability within 20 years of implementing their sustainability plans. For critically over-drafted 
basins, that will be 2040. For the remaining high and medium priority basins, 2042 is the deadline. 

Through the Sustainable Groundwater Management Program, DWR provides ongoing support to local 
agencies through guidance and financial and technical assistance. 

SGMA empowers local agencies to form Groundwater Sustainability Agencies (GSAs) to manage basins 
sustainably and requires those GSAs to adopt Groundwater Sustainability Plans (GSPs) for crucial 
groundwater basins in California. 

The Cooperative Agreement will give Gridley the opportunity to participate in a regional sub-basin 
Ground Water Management Plan (GWMP), rather than develop a separate one. 

Fiscal Impact 
Initial costs will include staff time, engineering involvement, Councilmember involvement. Non- 
participation could cost the City upwards of $500,000 to develop our own GWMP. 

Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council and City staff are committed to providing effective leadership while providing quality 
cost effective local government services. 

Attachment 
Cooperative Agreement among Groundwater Sustainability Agencies in Butte Subbasin 

COOPERATION AGREEMENT AMONG GROUNDWATER SUSTAINABILITY 

AGENCIES IN THE BUTTE SUBBASIN 

This COOPERATION AGREEMENT ("Agreement") establishing cooperation among the Butte 
Subbasin Groundwater Sustainability Agencies (GSAs) is made and entered into and effective 
upon the date when the last Member Agency signs this Agreement ("Effective Date") by and 
among the public agencies listed on the attached Exhibit A ("Members"). 

Recitals 

WHEREAS, in 2014, the California legislature adopted, and the Governor signed into 
law, three bills (SB 1168, AB 1739, and SB 1319) collectively referred to as the "Sustainable 
Groundwater Management Act" ("SGMA"), that initially became effective on January 1, 2015, 
and that has been amended from time-to-time thereafter; and 

WHEREAS, the stated purpose of SGMA, as set forth in California Water Code section 
10720.1, is to provide for the sustainable management of groundwater basins at a local level by 
providing local groundwater agencies with the authority, and technical and financial assistance 
necessary, to sustainably manage groundwater; and 

WHEREAS, SGMA requires the designation of Groundwater Sustainability Agencies 

("GSAs") for the purpose of achieving groundwater sustainability through the adoption and 
implementation of Groundwater Sustainability Plans ("GSPs") or an alternative plan for all 
medium and high priority basins as designated by the California Department of Water Resources 
("DWR"); and 

WHEREAS, each Member is a GSA, as defined by SGMA, duly organized and existing 

under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, and each Member has water supply, 
water management or land use responsibilities within the Butte Subbasin, which is designated 
subbasin number 5-021.70 in the most recent edition of DWR Bulletin Number 118; and 

WHEREAS, Section 10720.7 of SGMA requires all basins designated as high or 

medium priority basins by the DWR in its Bulletin 118 be managed under a GSP or coordinated 
GSPs pursuant to SGMA; and 

WHEREAS, The Members have determined that the sustainable management of the 
subbasin pursuant to SGMA may best be achieved through the cooperation of the Members 
operating through this Agreement; and 

WHEREAS, the Members agree that this Agreement does not establish or intend to be a 

GSA; and 

WHEREAS, the Members desire, through this Agreement, to enter into this Agreement 

for the purpose of organizing the various GSAs in the Butte Subbasin and cooperating in the 
development of a single GSP for the Butte Subbasin; and 

WHEREAS, the governing board of each Member has determined it to be in the 

Member's best interest and in the public interest that this Agreement be executed; 

NOW THEREFORE, In consideration of the matters recited and the mutual promises, 

covenant, and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Members hereby agree as follows: 

Page 1 of 13 

ARTICLE 1. DEFINITIONS 

TERMS OF AGREEMENT 

As used in this Agreement, unless context requires otherwise, the meanings of the terms set forth 
below shall be as follows: 

1.1. "Agreement" means Cooperation Agreement. 

1.2. 

"Basin" means the Butte Subbasin, to reflect the most recent Bulletin 118 
boundaries and as currently shown on the map attached to this Agreement as Exhibit B, which is 
incorporated herein by this reference. 

1.3. 
Agreement. 

"Committee" shall mean any committee established pursuant to Article 8 of this 

1.4. Coordination Agreement means a legal agreement adopted between two or more 
GSAs that provides the basis for coordinating multiple GSAs or GSPs within a basin. Coordination 
Agreements are required if multiple GSAs in a basin prepare multiple GSPs. 

1.5. 
Agreement. 

"Effective Date" means the date on which the last Member executes this 

1.6. 

"Fiscal Year" means July 1 through June 30. 

1.7. 

"GSA" shall mean a groundwater sustainability agency. 

1.8. 

"GSP" shall mean a groundwater sustainability plan. 

1.9. "Management Area" refers to an area within a basin for which a GSP may identify 
different minimum thresholds, measurable objectives, monitoring, or projects and management 
actions based on differences in water use sector, water source type, geology, aquifer 
characteristics, or other factors. 

1.10. "Member" means each party to this Agreement that satisfies the requirements of 
section 6 of this Agreement, including any new members pursuant to Section 6 of this Agreement. 

1.11. "Member's Governing Body" means the board of directors, trustees or other voting 

body that controls the individual public agencies that are Members. 

1.12. "SGMA" has the meaning assigned to it in the first Recital of the Agreement. 

1.13. "Specific Project" means a project undertaken by some, but not all Members, 

pursuant to Article 11 of this Agreement. 

1.14. "State" means the State of California. 

Page 2 of 13 

ARTICLE 2. PURPOSE OF THE AGREEMENT 

2.1. 

The purpose of this Agreement is to (a) develop, adopt, and implement a legally 

sufficient GSP for the Basin in order to implement SGMA requirements and achieve the 
sustainability goals outlined in SGMA develop and implement a single GSP; (b) cooperatively 
carry out the purposes of SGMA. Additional purposes include (a) to coordinate subbasin-wide 
public involvement and stakeholder outreach and engagement in developing and implementing 
the Butte subbasin GSP; and (b) to maintain mutual respect for the autonomy of individual 
Members and preservation of each Member's separate legal authorities, powers, duties and rights 
as separate public agencies and GSAs, except as set forth in this Agreement. 

ARTICLE 3. TERM 

3.1. 

This Agreement shall become effective on the Effective Date and shall continue 

in full force and effect until terminated pursuant to the provisions of Article 13. 

3.2.  By execution hereof, each Member certifies and declares that it is a legal entity 

that is authorized to be a Groundwater Sustainability Agency pursuant to California Water Code 
§ 10723. 

ARTICLE 4. PRESERVATION OF POWERS 

4.1 Preservation of Powers. Each Member retains its powers granted through SGMA. 

Each Member reserves the right, in its sole and absolute discretion and all of its Members 
confirm that nothing contained herein shall: 

4.1.1 Alter any water right, contract right, or any similar right held by its 
Members or any Member's landowners or customers, or amend a Member's water 
delivery practice, course of dealing, or conduct. 

4.1.2 Limit or interfere with the respective Members' rights and authorities over 
their own internal matters, including, but not limited to, an agency's legal rights to 
surface water supplies and assets, groundwater supplies and assets, facilities, 
operations, water management and water supply matters. 

4.1.3 Modify or limit a Member's police powers, land use authorities, well 
permitting or any other authority. 

ARTICLE 5. BASIN COOPERATION 

5.1 Within the Basin. Each Member recognizes the benefits of cooperation amongst the 
GSAs within the Butte Subbasin and, to that end, will in good faith and with the consent of each 
Member's governing body take actions to help effect the timely adoption of a GSP for the entire 
Basin and satisfy its ongoing obligations under SGMA, including the implementation and 
enforcement, if necessary, of the GSP. Such cooperation shall include, but not be limited to, 
prompt delivery of all necessary data and information to prepare the GSP and taking of all 
necessary actions to review, adopt and implement the GSP, including filing of annual reports and 
documents required by SGMA. The Members shall, whenever and as often as reasonably 
requested to do so by any other Member, execute, acknowledge, and deliver or cause to be 

Page 3 of 13 

executed, acknowledged, and delivered any and all documents and instruments as may be 
necessary, expedient or proper in the reasonable opinion of the requesting Member to carry out 
the purposes and intent of this Agreement. The Members intend to utilize the results of the Basin 
Setting project for relevant components of the Butte subbasin GSP (Appendix A). 

5.2 Coordination between Basins. If consistent with this Agreement, including Article 4 

(Preservation of Powers) and if required to comply with SGMA, the Members shall strive to 
coordinate between and among the other adjoining subbasins in complying with SGMA, which 
may include agreement to certain areas of coordination. 

ARTICLE 6. MEMBERS 

6.1. 

Initial Members. The initial Members of this Agreement shall be Biggs West-
Gridley Water District, Butte Water District, City of Biggs, City of Gridley, County of Butte, 
Colusa Groundwater Authority, County of Glenn, Reclamation District No. 1004, Reclamation 
District No. 2106, Richvale Irrigation District, and Western Canal Water District. 

6.2. New Members. Additional Parties may join the Agreement and become a Member 

provided that the prospective new member: (a) is an established GSA as provided by SGMA 
(Water Code § 10723), (b) pays its share of all previously incurred costs, if any, (c) pays all 
applicable fees and charges, if any, and (e) receives unanimous consent of the existing Members, 
evidenced by the execution of a written amendment to this Agreement signed by all Members, 
including the additional public agency. 

6.3 

Role of Members. Each Member agrees to cooperate in the development of a 

single GSP for the Butte Subbasin pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and to comply with 
implementation of SGMA. This support will involve the following types of actions: 

6.3.1. The members will provide designated staff to support facilitating the 
development of the GSP by making available staff time, information, services, and 
facilities within available resources. 

6.3.2. Contributions of public funds and of personnel, services, equipment, or 

property may be made by any Member for any of the purposes of this Agreement, 
provided that no repayment will be made for such contributions unless otherwise agreed 
upon. 

ARTICLE 7. MEMBER AGENCY ADVISORY BOARD 

7.1. Formation of the Butte Subbasin Advisory Board. This Agreement shall hereby 

establish an Advisory Board which shall be composed of one (1) seat per Member. The Advisory 
Board shall meet at least annually. Without amending this Agreement, the composition of the 
Advisory Board may be altered from time to time to reflect the withdrawal of any Member 
and/or the admission of any New Member. The board shall be known as the "Butte Subbasin 
Advisory Board." The Board shall consist of the following representatives, who shall be 
appointed in the manner set forth in Article 7: 

7.1.1. One (1) representative appointed by the governing body of each Member, 

who shall be a member of the governing body of the Member (each, a "Member Director"). 

Page 4 of 13 

7.1.2 One (1) alternate representative appointed by the governing board of each 

Member, who may be a member of the governing body or designee of the Member (each, an 
"Alternate Member Director"). 

7.2 

Purpose of the Butte Subbasin Advisory Board.  The purpose of the Advisory 
Board shall be to establish: 1) a GSA cooperation forum of Member Directors; 2) a publicly 
noticed venue pursuant the Ralph M. Brown Act for public involvement in GSP development 
and implementation in the Basin; 3) a mechanism whereby Members raise and attempt in good 
faith to resolve disputes that may occur between and among Members pursuant Article 9.2 of this 
Agreement; and 4) to make advisory recommendations to the Members concerning development 
and implementation of the GSP. All decision-making authority resides with the Members' 
governing bodies pursuant Article 9 of this Agreement. 

7.3.  Alternate Member Directors.  Alternate Member Directors shall not participate as 

a Member Director in any discussions or deliberations of the Advisory Board unless appearing as 
a substitute for a Member Director due to absence. If the Member Director is not present, the 
Alternate Member Director appointed to act in his/her place shall have the authority to act in 
his/her absence. Alternate Member Directors are encouraged to attend all Advisory Board 
meetings and stay informed on current issues before the Board. 

7.4. 

Terms.  The term for each member of the Advisory Board is four (4) years and 
these individuals may be reappointed. Each Member Director and Alternate Member Director 
shall serve at the pleasure of the appointing Member's Governing Body and may be removed 
from the Advisory Board by the appointing Members' Governing Body at any time. If at any 
time a vacancy occurs on the Advisory Board, a replacement shall be appointed by the 
appropriate Member to fill the unexpired term of the previous Member Director's seat pursuant 
to this Article 7 and within ninety (90) days of the date that such position becomes vacant. 

7.5.  Removal of Advisory Board Members.  A Director who no longer meets the 

qualifications set forth in section 7.1 is automatically removed from the Advisory Board. Upon 
removal of a Member Director, the Alternate Member Director shall serve as a Member Director 
until a new Member Director is appointed. 

ARTICLE 8. OTHER COMMITTEE FORMATION 

8.1 

Other Committees. The Advisory Board may, upon majority vote, form additional 
committees to assist in the implementation of this Agreement and SGMA, including committees 
comprised of staff representatives from the Members. Committee meetings shall be noticed to 
and oben to other Members. 

ARTICLE 9. DECISION-MAKING AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION 

9.1.  Decision-making Authority  Decision-making authority resides with the 

respective Members' governing bodies. Topics where the Members desire coordinated decision 
making will be considered by the Advisory Board, and the Member Directors will strive for 
unanimous recommendations that will be presented to each Member's governing bodies for 
consideration. 

9.2 

Dispute Resolution.  It is the desire of Members to informally resolve all disputes 

and controversies related to this Agreement, whenever possible, at the least possible level of 
formality and cost. If a dispute occurs, the disputing members shall meet and confer to discuss in 

Page 5 of 13 

an attempt to resolve the matter. If informal resolution cannot be achieved, the matter will be 
referred to the Advisory Board for resolution. The Advisory Board may engage the services of a 
trained mediator or resort to all available legal and equitable remedies to resolve disputes. 

ARTICLE 10. MANAGEMENT AREAS 

10.1 Formation of Management Areas. The Member Agencies may form Management 

Areas within the Basin. If Management Areas are formed the following shall apply. 

10.1.1 Common and Management Areas Chapters. The GSP will be organized so 

that there are GSP chapters that address issues common to all Members followed by 
Management Area chapters that may include specific minimum thresholds, measurable 
objectives, monitoring protocols and projects. All chapters must be consistent with the 
Basin sustainability goals. 

10.1.2 Management Area Lead Responsibilities and Coordination. Each of the 

Members will have the responsibility to cooperatively develop their relevant 
Management Area chapters) for inclusion into the GSP. The development of all 
Management Area chapters will be coordinated through the Advisory Board to ensure 
consistency and efficiency. 

10.1.3 Retention of Powers Granted through SGMA. Each Member as a GSA has 

the sole right to: 1) approve the sections or chapters of the GSP related to Sustainable 
Criteria and Projects and Actions as applicable within the Member's boundaries or 
Management Area; 2) consider the interests of beneficial uses and users as required by 
Water code § 10723.4 and GSP regulation §354.10; and 3) exercise the powers, without 
limitation, conferred upon a GSA by SGMA. 

10.1.4 Failure to Submit Management Area Chapter. In the event of a failure by 
any Member to develop and submit a Management Area chapter within the deadline set 
by mutual agreement, failure to comply may lead to Involuntary Termination pursuant 
13.3 of this Agreement, or other legal remedies available to the Members. 

10.1.5 Additional Management Areas. Additional Management Areas may be 

defined and established by unanimous agreement of the Members. 

ARTICLE 11. SPECIFIC PROJECTS 

11.1. Member Specific Projects. In addition to the general activities undertaken by all 
Members of this Agreement, individual Members may initiate specific projects to implement or 
comply with SGMA or the GSP that involve less than all Members, provided such Member or 
Members enter into a Project Agreement. 

11.2. Project Agreement. Prior to undertaking any Member specific project in Section 

11.2 that does not involve all Member Agencies, the Members electing to participate in the 
Project shall enter into a Project Agreement. A Member may elect not to participate in a specific 
project matter by providing notice and not entering into the Project Agreement specific to the 
matter in which the Member has elected not to participate. Each Project Agreement shall provide 
the terms and conditions by which the Members that enter into the Project Agreement will 
participate in the Project. All assets, rights, benefits, and obligations attributable to the Project 
shall be assets, rights, benefits, and obligations of those Members which have entered into the 

Page 6 of 13 

Project Agreement. Any debts, liabilities, obligations, or indebtedness incurred in regard to a 
particular Project shall be the debts, liabilities, obligations, and indebtedness of those Members 
who have executed the Project Agreement in accordance with the terms thereof and shall not be 
the debts, liabilities, obligations, and indebtedness of those Members who have not executed the 
Project Agreement. 

ARTICLE 12. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 

12.1.  Funding and Contributions.  This Agreement shall be initially funded through a 

GSP grant awarded by the DWR to Butte County and through in-kind contributions of Members. 
In subsequent years and as needed, continuing cooperation may be funded by additional Member 
contributions. If the Members decide that cost-sharing is required for any contract or expenditure 
made pursuant to this Agreement, any cost-sharing allocations shall be agreed to in writing by 
the Members in advance of executing any contracts with consultants, vendors, or other 
contractors or incurring any expense. Such written approval for cost-sharing shall be subject to 
any necessary approvals required by each Member's governing body or designee pursuant to that 
Member's contract approval procedures. Any such contracts shall be drafted in a manner that 
reflects that consultants, vendors, or contractors hired to perform work under this Agreement are 
working on behalf of the Members and will be expected to work with the Members on a 
collective basis and with each Member on an individual basis, as needed. Such contracts shall be 
made enforceable by the Members. The contracts shall include appropriate indemnity and 
insurance provisions agreed upon by the Members. In the event a Member of this Agreement 
acts as the official contracting party and executes a contract on behalf of the Members (the 
"Contracting Party"), the Contracting Party: 

12.1.1. shall comply with all applicable local, state, and federal laws including, 

without limitation, the California Public Contract code and California Labor Code; 

12.1.2. shall provide the other Members a reasonable opportunity to review any 

bids received and to review and provide input on any draft contract prior to its execution; 

12.1.3. shall not approve any change orders that increase the cost of the original 

contract by more than 10%without prior consultation and written consent of the other 
Members; 

12.1.4. shall provide diligent oversight of the work conducted by any contractor, 

vendor, or consultant under contract executed pursuant to this Agreement; and 

12.1.5 shall maintain complete, accurate, and clearly identifiable records with 

respect to all contracts executed and provide to the other Members, upon reasonable 
request, all records, documents, reports, conclusions, work product, and other information 
related in any way to any contract executed on behalf of the Members pursuant to this 
Agreement. 

ARTICLE 13. WITHDRAWAL AND TERMINATION 

13.1.  Withdrawal.  A Member may unilaterally withdraw from this Agreement without 

causing or requiring termination of this Agreement by providing notice of withdrawal, in writing, 
to the other Members and complying, as applicable, with the following: 

Page 7 of 13 

13.1.1 Notices of withdrawal shall state whether the withdrawing Member 

intends to prepare its own GSP for its GSA area and will be effective not less than sixty 
(60) days following delivery of the notice. If the withdrawing Member elects in the 
notice to prepare its own GSP, then the withdrawing Member and remaining Members 
shall meet and confer as often as necessary during the 60-day period to negotiate and 
finalize a legally sufficient Coordination Agreement (Water Code 10721(d)) required 
under SGMA. 

13.1.2. Notices of withdrawal submitted after the time period established in 

Section 13.1.1 shall not be effective until the Members have met, conferred and 
satisfactorily resolved issues associated with the withdrawal to ensure that the withdrawal 
does not cause the Butte Subbasin to be noncompliant with SGMA and potentially 
subject the Subbasin to probationary status. Withdrawing Members or the withdrawing 
Member's successor GSA shall be entitled to utilize the GSP for future implementation 
of SGMA within its GSA boundaries. 

13.2. Termination of Agreement. This Agreement may be rescinded by unanimous 

written consent of all Members. 

13.3. Involuntary Termination. The Members acknowledge that SGMA requires that 

multiple GSPs within a given Basin must be coordinated by using the same data and 
methodologies for certain required technical assumptions and that the entire Subbasin must be 
covered by one or more GSPs for the Basin to be deemed in compliance with SGMA. As a 
result, upon unanimous recommendation by the Advisory Board and determination by the 
respective Members' governing bodies that the actions of any Member: 1) fail to comply with 
the terms of this Agreement; or 2) conflict with or undermines the preparation and 
implementation of the requirements of SGMA, upon resolution from the remaining Member 
agencies' governing bodies may terminate that Member's membership in this Agreement, 
provided that prior to any Advisory Board vote to remove a Member involuntarily, the Members 
have engaged in at least the informal dispute resolution process as set forth in Section 9.2. 

13.4. Right of Member in Event of Withdrawal or Termination. Upon withdrawal or 
termination of this Agreement, any Member shall be entitled to use data or other information 
developed through this Agreement during its time as a Member. 

ARTICLE 14. MISCELLANEOUS 

14.1. No Predetermination or Irretrievable Commitment of Resources. Nothing in this 

Agreement shall constitute a determination by any of its Members that any action shall be 
undertaken or that any unconditional or irretrievable commitment of resources shall be made, 
until such time as the required compliance with all local, state, or federal laws, including without 
limitation the California Environmental Quality Act, National Environmental Policy Act, or 
permit requirements, as applicable, has been completed. 

14.2. Notices. Notices hereunder shall be sufficient if delivered via electronic mail, 

First-Class mail or facsimile transmission to the addresses as specified in Exhibit A. 

14.3. Amendment. This Agreement may be amended at any time, by unanimous 

agreement of the Members, provided that before any amendments shall be operative or valid, it 

Page 8 of 13 

shall be reduced to writing and signed by all Members hereto. 

14.4. Agreement Complete. This Agreement constitutes the full and complete 

agreement of the Members. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, 
whether in writing or oral, related to the subject matter of this Agreement that are not set forth in 
writing herein. 

14.5. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or 

unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain in force and unaffected to the fullest extent 
permitted by law and regulation. 

14.6. Execution in Counterparts. The Parties intend to execute this Agreement in 

counterparts. It is the intent of the Parties to hold one (1) counterpart with single original 
signatures to evidence the Agreement and to thereafter forward four (4) other original 
counterparts on a rotating basis for all signatures. Thereafter, each Member shall be delivered an 
originally executed counterpart with all Member signatures. 

14.7. Withdrawal by Operation of Law. Should the participation of any Member to this 

Agreement be decided by the courts to be illegal or in excess of that Member's authority or in 
conflict with any law, the validity of this Agreement as to the remaining Members shall not be 
affected thereby. 

14.8. Assignment. The rights and duties of the Members may not be assigned or 

delegated without the written consent of all other Members. Any attempt to assign or delegate 
such rights or duties in contravention of this Agreement shall be null and void. 

14.9. Binding on Successors. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be 

binding upon, the successors or assigns of the Members. 

14.10. Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with 
the laws of the State of California, and any action related to the terms of this Agreement will be 
filed in Butte County Superior Court. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, pursuant to resolutions duly and regularly adopted 
by their respective governing boards, have caused their names to be affixed by their proper and 
respective officers as of the date of execution of this Agreement. 

Page 9 of 13 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Directors, Biggs West Gridley Water District 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Directors, Butte Water District 

Date: 

By: 
Mayor, City of Biggs 

By: 
Mayor, City of Gridley 

Date: 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Directors, Colusa Groundwater Authority 

Date: 

By: 
Board of Supervisors Chair, County of Butte 

Date: 

By: 
Board of Supervisors Chair, County of Glenn 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Trustees, Reclamation District 1004 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Trustees, Reclamation District 2106 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Directors, Richvale Irrigation District 

Date: 

By: 
Chair of the Board of Directors, Western Canal Water District 

Date: 

Page 10 of 13 

Exhibit A: List of Member Agencies 

Biggs West Gridley Water District 
1713 West Biggs Gridley Road 
Gridley, CA 95948 

Butte Water District 
735 Virginia Street 
Gridley, CA 95948 

City of Biggs 
465 C Street 
Biggs, CA 95917 
P.O. Box 307 
Biggs, CA 95917 

City of Gridley 
685 Kentucky Street 
Gridley, CA 95948 

Colusa Groundwater Authority 
100 Sunrise Blvd. 
Colusa, CA 95932 

County of Butte 
25 County Center Drive 
Oroville, CA 95965 

County of Glenn 
525 West Sycamore Street 
Willows, CA 95988 

Reclamation District 1004 
135 5`~' Street 
Colusa, CA 95932 

Reclamation District 2106 
8369 Hugh Baber Lane 
Chico, CA 95928 

Ríchvale Irrigation District 
1193 Richvale Highway 
Richvale, CA 95974 

Western Canal Water District 
2003 Nelson Road 
Nelson, CA 95958 

Page 11 of 13 

Exhibit B: Butte Subbasin Map and jurisdictional boundaries of Member GSAs 

,.,,.~,, 

, 

ORNING' 

R. 

BUTTE 

SUBBASIN 

Legend: Butte Subb~sin GSAs 
~ _ __',ADarCu0W5t: 

.. ~:tK1 CJni Yg:tr ~:7Ct 

~:~t.J  ~;arou~lwSCereIP.Y'1~ 

.. R«Vat tTQYOn ~S7C. 

? çç:=he:t GMCI '~ahr ~ .trtt 
6.[Y 1\'~~ C :••:• 
® ';a~Mr C4tt,, = ~ 1 

Ricam XM : .:'cf 2lC6 
Ricr^XM?77CSN0. iC{'r: 

- Ce~ Cr @:y~: 

T~ :~:f  tr ~rOtij 

-I~! CC~rfi ~ =.1 

—~ ~ 

/ ' —~ 

t  ~~ ' ~ 
~ 

,. . ~ 

' 

~ 

~~ 

' 

1 

'-~ 
COLUSA ~ 

!~ 

~ 

~ 
1 1 ~ 
1 
WYANDOTTE  

i  CREEK 

R~ 

, 
'1,. 
,~ 
,~ 
r 

------ ;---~- '1 

~  ~ ~ ~,,,~-.~,~.} 

I__ _~ 

BUTTER 

..~ 
~ 

,_~ 
-~ -ti.. 

i  
~ 
r,,y 
~ " 
~ 
;NORTH 
. 
~ YUBA . 

~ -' ,.~ 

~ 

.~ 
~~ ~ 

~~ 

~ 

~ 

~ w........, 

1 
~,? ---~~~.~ 

~ : 

E  

~~L~~vs 

ti  i  

j 
, 

Rev;swn '1612019 ~ 

Page 12 of 13 

Appendix A: Basin Setting Description 

APPENDIX A 

BASIN SETTING DESCRIPTION 

Basin Setting.  —The development of the Groundwater Sustainability Plan (GSP) began in 2018 
through the development of the Basin Setting project. The Basin Setting project will develop 
required portions of the GSP to fulfill the requirements for the Hydrogeologic Conceptual 
Model, water budget, groundwater conditions, monitoring network and other technical aspects of 
all three GSPs being submitted from the Butte, Vina and Wyandotte Creek subbasins allowing 
for utilization of the same data, analyses and results from the Basin Setting Project. Content for 
the following chapters will be developed for the GSPs: 

1.  Hydrogeologic Conceptual Model (§354.14) 

a) Map of Recharge Areas (§ 10727.2(d)(4)) 

2.  Current and Historical Groundwater Conditions (§354.16) 
3.  Water Budget Information (§354.18) 

1.  Surface Water Supplies (§ 10727.2(d)(5)) 

4.  Data and Reporting Standards (§352.4) 
5.  Data Management System (§354.6) 
6.  Water Resource Monitoring and Management Programs (§354.8(c-e)) 
7.  Monitoring Protocols (§352.2) 
8.  Monitoring Networks (§354.34) 
9.  Monitoring Network Assessment and Improvement (§354.38) 

Page 13 of 13 

City Council Agenda Item #4 

Staff Report 

Date: 

August 19, 2019 

To: 

Mayor and City Council 

From: 

Recreation Manager Trina Leishman 

X  Regular 
Special 
Closed 
Emergency 

Subject: 

Purchase and Installation of new Vierra Park Playground Equipment 

Recommendation 
City staff respectfully recommends that the City Council authorize the purchase and installation of new 
Playground Equipment for Vierra Park and approve 50% of the funding of the equipment — $90,000 
utilizing Park Impact Fee Revenue and General Fund Lease Revenues from the Gridley FEMA Group Site 
and authorize the City Administrator to sign the purchase agreement with Miracle Play Systems. The 
other 50% of the funding will be received from donations and grants. 

Background 
Recreation Manager Trina Leishman has worked for the past year to significantly upgrade Recreation 
Programing and Parks and Recreation facilities, including new state-of-the-art playground equipment for 
our flagship park, Vierra Park. Atop priority has been to install equipment that appeals to a wider array 
of age groups and that attracts visitors from both Gridley and adjoining communities. The Recreation 
Manager has worked closely with potential bidders, grant funding agencies, and other City staff 
including the Finance Director, Utilities Director, and City Administrator. Public Works has committed to 
helping with the concrete and dirt work to reduce the project costs. 

The Recreation Manager applied for and received a $25,000 grant from the North Valley Community 
Foundation. Staff is additionally working with various non-profits, including local services clubs, 
businesses, and individuals to fund approximately 50% of the overall total costs of the project. 

While the Vierra Park survey is still underway, the Public Works and Recreation staff are confident that 
future Park improvements will not have any impact on the Tree Canopy area where the proposed 
equipment will be installed. 

Financial Impact 
The proposed new Vierra Park Playground Equipment will be funded by Grant Funds, Park Impact Fees, 
and FEMA Lease Revenues. 

Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council and City staff are committed to providing the highest possible quality of life to our 
residents as well as effective leadership while providing quality cost effective local government services. 

Attachments — 1.) Agreement 

2.) Design 
3.) Bids 

// 

COMMUNITY 
FOUNDATION 

DATE 3/6/19 

To: Camp Fire Service Providers 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Farshad Azad 
CHAIR 

Earl Jessec 
VICE CliA1R 

Deborah Rossi 
TRL•ASURER 

Vanessa Sundin 
SECRETARY 

Sherry Holbrook 

Manoah Mohanroj 

Diane Ruby 

Our sincere thanks to you, your staff, and volunteers assistíng those in need 
as a result of the horrific Camp Fire disaster. We have been fortunate to 
receive hundreds of donations dedicated to assisting organizations such as 
yours. 

We are pleased to enclose a check for X25,000.00 to support your efforts. We 
trust that these funds will be directed toward helping provide basic needs for 
those affected by the Camp Fire_ 

We would very much appreciate receiving a brief summary of what the funds 
were used for, as this would help us document charitable distributions under 
Internal Revenue Service rules. There is no need for an immediate response, 
but it would be helpful if your brief reply included the name and signature of 
the individual responsible for financial matters at your organization. 

Thank you again for your outstanding efforts. 

lanes Weitbrock  

Sincerely, 

Joc  Wilson 

STAFF 

~ 

~^-  

Logan Todd 
Director of grants 
ltodd@nrJcfa•g 

Alexa Benson-Valavanis 
PRESIDENT &CEO 

Chris Hayaslrida-Knight 
CNILFFINANCIAL OFFICER 

Bill Hubbard 
DIRECTOR OF GIFT PIr1NNING 

Courtney Brown 
DIRL• CTOR OF FINANCE 

Logan Todd 
DIRECTi7R OF GRANTS 

Carolyn Engstrom 
OPERATIONS MANAGER 

Tanana Briggs 
EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT 

240 Main St Sle 260 Chico CA 95928 - 530!891-1150 

nvcf.org  

April 8, 2019 

systems 

(~GSIC:F?I~~?G PL~1':' 

Bill To: City of Gridley 

Sub Total $165,313.50 
Freight $8,476.71 
Tax $7,164.35 
Total $180,954.56 

PO BOX 263 
ALAMO, CA 94507 
Phone (800) 879-7730 
Fax (510) 893-2163 
Email info@miracleplaygroup.com  

lob: P19_0122_ Vierra 
Park 
Name: P19_0122_ Vierra 
Park 
Number: 00004429 
Type: 
CSL# 981433 
PO: 
Terms: Net 30 

End User To: 
City of Gridley 
Gridley, CA 

Delivery Contact: 
Delivery Phone: 
Delivery Address: 
Gridley CA 

Item 

Type 

Qty 

Rate 

Total 

Elephant Play Large Spinner ER1300D 

Equipment 

Elephant Play Large Dome Climber: 
AN 1303 
Miracle Equipment per 
19 0122 Vierra Park 002 BOM 

Installation of weed fabric 

Equipment installation per plan 
(Excluded: Scope of work to be defined) 

Installation of 325 cy of wood fiber 

Wood Fiber Material Only 

Equipment 

Equipment 

Install 

Install 

Install 

Install 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

325 

325 

$25,120.00 

$25,120.00 

$44,926.00 

$44,926.00 

$20,407.00 

$20,407.00 

$1,430.00 

$1,430.00 

$61,490.00 

$61,490.00 

$11.00 

$3,575.00 

$25.74 

$8,365.50 

Sub Total $165,313.50 
Total Freight $8,476.71 
Total Tax $7,164.35 
Grand  Tota)  $180,954.56 

Company: 
Signature: 
Name: _ 
Date: 

Page 1 of 2 

April 8, 2019 

INDENINITY 
Client/Owner shall defend, mdemnily and hgld harmless Miracle Playsystems, Inc., its officers,  directa:.,  board of trustees, agents, or employees xnd Bath a! them, 
from  anyand all claims, demands, causes of achan .n law ar in equity, damages, penalties, costs, expenses, reasonable at:orneyi gees, reasonable _opens' I--±es, 
reasonable consultants' fees, judgments, tosses or habRltles, of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out or or m any svay connected :vsth or mcidenwl to. the 
performance of she servrcez under this Agreement or any of the obbgations conwined in this agreement ('Claims'). Wdheut lima;anon, 'damages" include personal 
injury, Indudmp_ but not limited ;o bodily injury, emotional mlury, sicmess or disease, or death to persons, including, but not limited to, any employees or agents of 
Mirade Playsystems, Inc., or any other person; or other damages of any kind to anyone including, without limitation, economic loss, property damage and loss of use 
Usereof. It is expressly acknowledged and agreed Chas each of the (oregomg indemnities is independent, that each shall be given effect, and;hat each shall apply 
despite any acts o: omissions, misconduct or negligent conduct, whether active qr passive, on the part of, or other con[ractorjs): provided, however, miracle 
Playsystems. Inc. duty to indemnify shall he Irmited to the percentage or the d_gree Miracle Playsystems, Inc. comparative negligence caused any damages. 

STANDARD NOTES 

• 

• 
• 
• 

Price quotation is good for 9D days. Accurate color selections must be made in westing prior to equrpment going into prcduction Cdorz :a be conbrmed 

wnh your total sales repretontabve. 
PLEASE MAf;E PURCHASE ONOER AND CHECI; TO MIRACLE PLT.YSYSi EMS, INC a[ PO gas 263 Alamo, CA 9x507 
Please email/fax quotation with your signature to accept this quote and place order. Fax 530-393.2163 or email In(o~btiracle PlayGraup.com  
Unless othenvrse specified, hlvacle Playsystems, Inc DOES NOT include the following in this proposal: 

- 
• 

EngmcereJ drawings 
tnstallation of equipment ar other site amenities 
Specialty trades, equipment, power supply required to install equipment 

Any imurance requirinC in excess a($1M/$2M per occurrence, special insurance coverage or werdinC. Pravaibng/Certified v+age rates, local permdbnq. 
bid/performance bonds, temp Iencing, goo tech surveys, playground safety ínspeclion, equipment oígoad. and testing services 

TERMS &CONDITIONS 

Pwchate [oaten[[ arms S condmons of sale: The client/custome/s acceptance and undersWndmg of these terms ú condition and all other supporting 
documerlation provided as parr of this package is evidenced by signing o(thif estimate/quote. 
Payment terms: Standard terms (an approved credit), unless othersiise noted are SOY. v+ith order and balance to shrp equipment (no resenticn). Should 
any changes be required to the products after order s placed, modifications ar changes will be at [bent/customers expense. Mvacle Playsystems, Inc 
maintains a nq return policy and asks all clients to de;ermine feature, layout and color selection prior to ordering. Should any order be cancelled after 
production has started a 30Y. restocking fee :viii be charged to [lent. Credu card convenience fee is 3.5% which volt be added to all credit card charges 
lead times: Estimated lead times for [he time the order is released into production until it is delivered :vdl vary and are as fgllos•+s: 
8-12 weeks for standard (non-tustom) play features far US based manufacturers; 
32-20 weeks standard play features (non•cvstom) from European S Can±dean manufacturars. Erpedf[ed Alr Freight is available for addt[ional  tost  
(calculated on case by case basisj. 
Custom play feature Icad times are determined on a case by case basis 

CONSTRUCTION SERVICES (if applicable) 
Unless otherwise noted, we exclude responsibibty for material delivery S ollloadmg equipment, removal S disposal of packaging accumulated by egwpment packaging, 
project security, landscape S hardsape repair based on assess route so site, delays cr returns due to layout con Ricts or delay of other cadet, removal of spoils teem 
jab site, locating underground: utilities, pipes, obstructions in work area, conditions unforeseen and/or not disclosed a: time of estimate, permits, engineering, material 
testing, soil samples, GPSI. Conditions: Grades; stable, compacted & workable vnth 95Y, compaction and Icss than lY.;rade, adequate access to site forlabor, materials, 
roots and equpment. Estimate goad far 90 days from quct^_ or Det. 31 of current cal=_odor year, whichever comes first Termr Upon completion. 

GENERALTERMS 

• 

• 

THIS QUOTE IS LlfviITEO TO aND GOVcRNED BY THE TERMS CONTAINED HEREIN: Miracle Playsystems, Inc obfeces :o any oeh~r terms proposed by client, 
in :vriting or othenvis^, a: material alterations, and all such proposed terms shall be void. Client authorises Miraclo Playsystems, Inc to ship equipment 
and agrees to paY the total specified. Shipping terms arc FOB the place of shipment via common currier. 
Client and owner/ooeratgr agree to mdemmfy and hold tvtvade Playsyst^_ms, Inc. harmless from and against all hablbties, losses, penalties, damages and 
expenses, indud~nC costs and attorney  fees, resulting tram any and all claims, liens, damages, acbo ns, suits, judgments or settlements, injuries arising cr 
alleged toarise out of their failure, or failure of architect, comraclors, zubcontrettors, installers, employees, agents and asssgns to assemble, install, inspect 
andlor maintain the  play  equipment and impact absorbing surfacing in lull compliance vrith each manufacturers installation instructions and safety 
requirements and their misuse and/or altcratlon of the play egwpment. 

Company: 
Signature: 
Name: 
Date: 

Page 2 of 2 

~. i!!:r'tCL~ 

systems ' 
~ralc~!I•,c PLy11r 

•- 

'r-  

~,. 

I ^~' 

, 

~ ~ 

`r,., :,. ~ 

~_....__._....... 

,.,.....,..,.,. 

• 

_ 

-, .. 

t~ .r..,.,,_.  i  

N O R T H 

_ 

O 

ti 

K, 
Scd<. vti,' • r-G' 

\ 

,,,_,~m—.  
$ ~ 
IL:I  ,..>;P..,. 

NlawYssKcn...rrro 
~,~,,,,~;,,;,,~ T  
fJWGE IIO S.[11DaEIEK.YhO 
cv,«svn au ~ro ro ac 
^a'°'-"~ 

.,um~ 

uc%rxu  72Y3LF 
[/-rC~C ryy~c[M  Q~s•~Fl, 
19_O122_Vierra_OO2 

.n+rn  53G0sr 
:<.~  ,~~.,-0' 

1D'' 
oz.o:-~, 

Manuel Vierra Park 
Gridley, Gf4 

I 

~ 

. 
~ 

- 
• 

~~i 
~ 
;~ 

i 
t  

t:._ 

~~.. ..._..~. ~. ~ _..- ~~ _ J 

' ~ 

MI[tACLL 

- 
~ ~i~ L ~~--~`'-,, 
. 
ti 
systems  %~~~~ 44~,.a- ~,-  xs . ti_.'• 

~ • .t _  ~ ;,~,a  i  " ~ ï 
-~! r~  ni 
~ :' ...  ~;,;~  Q ~. ~ 

~ 

OESIGNINC PL~Y uk 

; ~ •, 

(~ 

--.n,._ .-, . ".._--.;---,:: 
-1 ~ii~r'r:F.i1.•.ti„wt••. 
`~ 

(', 
. ~.~ ` 

....s. 
" -  1.^: ~: •~; 
A  ~ 
, _ ~ ~_~ 

_ 

Manuel Vierra Park 
cr~a~~y, ca. 
02•0~-2019 

19 0112_Vierta_001 

- 

~~ . 

C 

~, 
' 
~r^

Y
r

•:~`~~ r=~-"~ 
,n`'~ ~ , ;~ :,.• 
~7>I 

~ s . : S 

. 

~'., 

~ ~ 

~~ • 

,•Y'.~ 

~'i, 

1 

- _—..~ 

'''~ 

~  ~~ 

l L J 

.~,~`.-~- 

;: ,. 

- 

Colors Used !n Rendering: 

~ 
~ ' ) Plum ~~ Red 

91ue 

~•., 

TroPJ«! 
Ycllow 

Charrreusc 

tdIRACLE 

sysiems 
DESIGNING PI_4l' 

" 
_~ • 
% 
. 
!r

r 
' 

1~e~~ 

i  •  ! 
~  ~~ f~ ^ ,• )  _~ 
,;7t i  ~?~('~~~ 
: ~ ~ rj ~-,~~ -•  J
~;
,
y
` ~ ~ _ ' ~;I 

r  • 
..-._:, 
-- 
;. 

 ~ 

` 

-P%'r..-r . . ,~;~.-ti ;~,. 

E,  _ l  „r _,~;~,  r~eJ  ..z  ~~'- 
~ 
, . 

~ . 

..i~ =~ 

_.~ -% 

` 
r.. 

~ 

IÍ 

Manuel Vierra Park 

crial~y, ca. 
02-07-2019 

17 0J22_Nerta 001 

r ~ ~ a l~. 

_~~ -_ 

__ ___ _ ~` • ~~ ~~~_ 
. 

~ 

~ 

~... 

: --= ~_ 

- 

_... _. _-_. :.---- • • ~ _- ----  ~~~... ~:~ _~ 

__ 

/~~ 

~+ 
~  ; 
, 

- 

I 

Manuel Vierra Park 
c~;~ury, ca. 
oz-oz-zois 

iv_cizz_w~R, coz 

MIRACLE 

systerns1  ~  ,;~ ~~~;~~~ 

~ ~_~  I ~.  (+~ ~ v 
t 
~  i  ~u t 
~ ~' j' 
r ~; • . 
, 

~~ . q  i. 

—^. 
r 
~ 

DESIGNING PLOY t~ 

— 

- 
~: 1  • ~ )  ~'  r 

~,., . 

•. .,a - . ,  ~ -- ~ ~~ 

y~  : 
's 

i  
• - 
-, 
_'--~1-~ 

- - 
,  , 
A 

r ; ~ ~ :_ .~~~~~~~~".J  ~: ~— 

,~ 

Miracle Playground Sales 

9106PuIsarCt 
SuÍte C 

Corona, CA 92883 

Name /Address 

City of Gridley 

Phone # 800-264-7225 
877-215-3869 
Fax# 

E-maíl 

sales@miracleplayground.com  

Web Site  www.miracleplayground.com  

Estímate  

Date 

Estimate q 

6/14/2019 

MP59849 

Project 

Viers Park 

Terms 

Net 30 

Rep 

Drett 

FOB 

Factory 

Description 

Qty 

Rate 

Total 

Elephant Play Large Spinner: ER1300D 
Elephant Play Large Dome Climber: AN1303 
Miracle Equipment per 19_0122_VierraPark_002_BOM 
Installation of weed fabric 
Equipment installation per plan 
Installation of 325 cy of wood fiber 
Wood Fiber Material Only 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
325 
325 

27,690.00 
46,820.00 
23,427.00 
1,700.00 
68,000.00 
15.00 
27.25 

27,690.007 
46,820.007 
23,427.007 
1,700.00 
68,000.00 
4,875.00 
6,856.257 

Item 

Elephant Pla}~ 
Elephant Play 
btiracle 
Installation 
Installation 
Installation 
Fihar 

EXCLUSIONS 

EXCLUDES:  unloading, storage, installation, site work, fees & permits 

0.00 

0.00 

This quote is valid for 30 days 

This quote shall not become binding until signed and returned foi• approval. Signature 
indicates acceptance of all items and costs listed. A signed quote will not substitute fora 
Purchase Order ifone is required by Customer. 
TERivIS: Municipalities and Public School. have Net 30 lcrms. All others will need to be 
rcvie~ved prior to terms being issued - a deposit ma}~ be required. 

Subtotal 

Sales Tax 

(7.25 /o) 

o 

Total 

5181,368.25 

57.74  5l 

$189,110.76 

Signature 

~,dwarc~s Fy Associates 

ParIC anó Playgrounà ~9uíPment 

Post Q{~íce gjox 909 
Carmel Valley, CA 9392` 

June 14, 2019 

QUOTED T0: 

City of Gridley 
685 Kentucky Street 
Gridley, CA 95948 

JOB NAME: Vierra Park 

DESCRIPTION 

Provide Elephant Play Spinner ER1300D &Large Dome Climber AN1303 

Provide Miracle Recreation Equipment Per Drawing 19_0122_VierraPark_002 

Provide 325 CY Engineered Wood Fiber &Weed Barrier Fabric 

Install Weed Barrier and Engineered Wood Fiber 

Installation of Equipment Listed Above, per Plan 
SUBTOTAL 

FREIGHT 

TAX (7.25%) 
TOTAL 

PRICING 

$ 72,550.00 

$ 22,425.00 

$ 8,720.00 

$ 5,225.00 

$ 63,060.00 

$171,980.00 

$ 8,840.40 

$ 7,517.89 

$188,337.89 

NOTES 

TERMS: City Purchase: Net 30; Contractor Purchase: 50% Deposit, Remainder due Upon Delivery 

Pricing for all Equipment does NOT include receiving, storing or installation. 
Above quotes for equipment are "Provide Only" unless otherwise quoted. 

Pricing is good for 30 days from date above. 

Representing Miracle Recreation ~9uíPment  Com Pany  •  MAGS  USA • Sof'jolutions SurFacín~ 

~Steelcra{t •UPC Parks • (,~5/~Sl,ade • uitrasite Furnis{,ings 

City Council Agenda Item #5 

Staff Report 

Date: 

August 19, 2019 

To: 

Mayor and City Council 

From: 

Paul Eckert, City Administrator/Finance Director 

Subject: 

City Council Committee Assignments 

X  Regular 
Special 
Closed 
Emergency 

Recommendation 
Staff respectfully requests the City Council discuss the various City Council Committee 
Assignments identified in the attached Appointments List and appoint Council Members to the 
various Committees. The appointments are generally for a period of two years. Most of the 
appointments maybe changed by the City Council at any time. 

Background and Compliance with City Council Strategic Plan or Budget Goals 
The City Council is committed to effective leadership and inter-agency collaboration, including 
representation of individual City Councilmembers on various local and regional Boards and 
Commissions. 

Financial Impact 
None 

Attachments: 
Draft List of City Councilmember Committee Appointments 

City of Gridley City Council Committees 
August 19, 2019 

Committee 

When /Where 

Rotates among members 

Representative 

Bruce Johnson 

Butte Subbasin 
Advisory Board 
Sutter Butte Flood 
Control Agency 
Butte County Assn. of 
Gov'ts. 
Butte County Air 
Quality 
LAFCo Commission 

N.C.P.A. 

Butte County Solid 
Waste JPA 
Local Agency Task 
Force (solid waste) 
Butte Co. Abandoned 
Vehicle 
Mosquito Abatement 

2nd Wednesday, 1:00 p.m., 1201 Civic Center Drive,  Bruce Johnson 
YC 
4th Thursday, 9:00 a.m., 326 Huss Drive, Suite 100, 
Chico 
Following BCAG meeting (listed above) 

Borges/Johnson 

Borges/Johnson 

1st Thursday at 9:00 a.m., 25 County Center Dr., 
Oroville 
3rd Thursday, 10:30 a.m., 651 Commerce Dr., 
Roseville 
No regular schedule 

No regular schedule 

Bruce Johnson 

Eckert/Torres 

Bruce Johnson 

Bruce Johnson 

Quarterly, 10:00 a.m. Board of Supervisors 

Paul Eckert 

2nd Wednesday, 4:00 p.m. alternates Chico/Oroville  Bruce Johnson 

Hospital JPA 

As needed (very infrequent) 

Loan Committee 
Gridley Chamber of 
Commerce 
Red Suspenders 
Cómmittee 
Winter Festival 
Committee 

As needed 
Second Monday of the Month 

Bi-weekly Meetings 3 Months Prior 

Bi-weekly Meetings 3 Months Prior 

Chris Williams 

Bruce Johnson 
Zach Torres 

Zach Torres 

Zach Torres 

